哦	o2，真不走运。	Oh, that's tough luck.
啦	别客气la5尽情地吃吧！	Don't stand on ceremony----dig in!
嘿	hei1，这个消息太棒了！	Hey, the news's terrific/great!
投票	这位参议员tou2piao4支持总统。	The senator voted to support the president.
更新	geng1xin1（旧信息）的信息	Information that updates.
哇	多高大的树wa1!	What a giant of a tree!
家伙	他是个卑鄙的jia1huo5.	He's a scurvy wretch.
拥有	他渴望yong1you3权力。	He was thirsty for power.
奖励	对投资期限较长者可获百分之二的jiang3li4.	A premium of 2 per cent is paid on long-term investments.
崇拜	不要chong2bai4财富。	Don't make an idol of money.
拜托	bai4tuo1您捎个信儿给他。	Would you be kind enough to take a message to him?
等级	一切生物均可按deng3ji2分类.	There is a hierarchy in the classification of all living creatures.
评论	批判批判性的ping2lun4或判断	A critical comment or judgment.
现场	一名xian4chang3采访记者	An on-the-scene reporter.
视频	没有shi4pin2信号。	There is no video signal.
模式	纯粹地符合类型、标准或mo2shi4地	So as to conform to a type, standard, or pattern.
而已	他只是假装er2yi3。	He's only shamming.
修复	卡车严重损坏，已无xiu1fu4的希望。	The lorry was damaged beyond hope of repair.
客户	他们给ke4hu4散发传单。	They distributed leaflets to customers.
夫人	这边请，fu1ren5。	This way please, madam.
时光	不要虚度shi2guang1。	Don't loiter your time away.
死亡	车祸造成很多人si3wang2。	Car accident caused many deaths.
天堂	除了tian1tang2门，黄金皆可进。	Gold go in at any gate except heaven's.
人家	ren2jia5让我挪动了车子。	I was made to move my car.
战斗	他号召部下zhan4dou4。	He summoned his soldiers to fight.
恶心	我有些e3xin5.	I feel sort of queasy.
事业	他的shi4ye4兴旺发达。	His business is prosperous.
尸体	shi1ti3躺在血泊中.	The body was lying in a pool of blood.
屁股	你把pi4gu5挪一挪, 我想坐下.	Move your stern, I want to sit down.
将军	jiang1jun1下令部下攻城。	The general commanded his men to attack the city.
砸	那块石头差点儿za2到男孩。	The stone just missed the boy.
啥	别看种菜没sha2，其实大有学问。	Growing vegetables looks easy, but actually it takes a lot of learning.
剑	英雄用jian4猛劈巨人。	The hero smote the giant with his sword.
监狱	窃贼被关押在jian1yu4里。	The thief was confined in a prison.
恐怖	他看到那kong3bu4的情景吓呆了.	He stiffened (with terror) at the horrific sight.
真相	无疑这是zhen1xiang4。	This is beyond doubt the truth.
事件	shi4jian4接二连三地发生。	The events came thick and fast.
选手	他无疑是较优秀的xuan3shou3.	He is without dispute the better player.
意识	我没有yi4shi2到。	I wasn't aware of that.
性感	她是位xing4gan3的西方美人。	She is a sultry western beauty.
凶手	那个xiong1shou3向司法部门投案自首。	The murderer delivered himself up to justice.
坑	种树前，我们先用铁锹挖了些keng1。	We dig some pits with a spade before planting the trees.
导航	由于没有适当的dao3hang2援助，飞行员不了解周围气候的变化情况，将飞机直接飞入了热带飓风眼内。	Not having proper navigational aids the pilot had been unaware of the changing conditions and had flown the plane right into the eye of the tropical storm.
武器	他们携带著wu3qi4.	They were carrying weapons.
发誓	他fa1shi4永远爱她。	He swore to love her for evermore.
凌晨	他於星期日ling2chen2逝世.	He died in the early hours of Sunday morning.
副	他脸上一fu4凶相。	He has a very fierce look on his face.
冲动	急躁的仓促而不加思索的；chong1dong4的	Hasty and unthinking; impetuous.
激情	这首诗表现出强烈的ji1qing2。	The poem showed great intensity of feeling.
孤独	我不喜欢gu1du2。	I am not fond of solitude.
欢乐	彩旗增加了节日的huan1le4。	Color flags added to the gaiety of the festival.
撒谎	看来你在sa1huang3。	It seems (that) you were lying.
灵魂	天主教徒透过告解以获得赦罪[净化ling2hun2].	Catholics go to confession to be purged of sin/purge (away) their sin/purge their souls of sin.
岁月	sui4yue4和风雨早已磨掉纪念碑上的铭文。	Time and weather had long ago effaced the inscription on the monument.
瞬间	shun4jian1一个短暂的、不确定的时间间隔	A brief, indefinite interval of time.
舞蹈	她一生献身于研究wu3dao3。	Her whole life has been given to the study of dance.
侦探	zhen1tan4特别强调细节。	The detective laid great stress on details.
即将	他ji2jiang1动身。	He was about to start.
用户	对方合用电话线路的yong4hu4	A subscriber to a telephone party line.
失踪	他shi1zong1一事警方正在调查.	His disappearance is being looked into by the police.
交易	商品jiao1yi4兴旺.	Trading in commodities was brisk.
明明	ming2ming2白白的事实；明显的野心	The naked facts; naked ambition.
机遇	不要让ji1yu4从我们身边溜走。	Don't let chances pass by.
穿越	他们被禁止chuan1yue4占领区.	They were denied passage through the occupied territory.
结局	这故事的jie2ju2如何?	How does this story end?
尝试	他绝望之下放弃了chang2shi4。	He gave up the attempt in despair.
搭	栏杆上da1著条毛巾.	A towel hung from the rail.
能量	心理创伤；心理neng2liang4	Psychic trauma; psychic energy.
线索	警方正进一步寻找xian4suo3.	The police are on the hunt for further clues.
爆炸	锅炉bao4zha4了。	The boiler blew up.
实力	利物浦足球队和英格兰足球队shi2li4相当。	Liver-pool and England are neck and neck in strength.
耍	你想shua3心眼儿吗?	Are you trying to be clever?
系列	行列行、列、xi4lie4或行列	A row, line, series, or range.
刺	【谚】玫瑰好看却有ci4。	Roses have thorns.
官方	guan1fang1的认可；同意	Official approval; sanction.
攻击	他公然予以gong1ji1。	He made an undisguised attack.
神奇	这是个shen2qi2的故事。	It's a magical story.
吉祥	他有一种迷信的想法认为黑猫不ji2xiang2。	He has a superstitious thought that black cat are unlucky.
灯笼	水池周围的树上悬挂著deng1long5.	Lanterns were strung in the trees around the pool.
钻石	她左手上戴着一枚zuan4shi2戒指。	She wears a diamond ring on her left hand.
试图	他曾shi4tu2服毒自杀。	He tried to kill himself by taking poison.
清醒	他完全qing1xing3了。	He was wide awake.
魔鬼	mo2gui3所逼，不得已也。	Needs must when the devil drives.
财富	cai2fu4并不一定带来快乐。	Money doesn't always bring happiness.
折磨	她长期受风湿病的zhe2mo2.	She's a martyr to rheumatism.
永恒	该体系的yong3heng2性不受任何事物的影响.	Nothing threatens the permanence of the system.
发布	地方长官fa1bu4哀悼一日的命令.	The governor decreed a day of mourning.
子弹	zi3dan4从枪中射出。	The bullet was expelled from the gun.
登陆	部队已在几个地点deng1lu4.	Troops have been landed at several points.
展现	他zhan3xian4了非同小可的本事。	He showed no small skill.
年度	本nian2 du4的盈利将与上一nian2 du4的亏损相抵.	This year's profits will balance our previous losses.
意味着	他沉默不语yi4wei4zhe5同意了。	His silence implied agreement.
心灵	慈爱的关怀；温和仁慈的xin1ling2	A kindly interest; a gentle, kindly soul.
盯	ding1著人看是没有礼貌的.	It's rude to stare.
思念	他们si1nian4着在亚洲的故乡。	They were pining for their homeland in Asia.
淘汰	太阳队在第一轮比赛中被tao2tai4了。	The Sun Team was washed out in the first round.
灿烂	他说日落是多麽的辉煌can4lan4。	He said how glorious the sunset was.
愚蠢	真是个yu2chun3的白痴!	What a stupid idiot!
承诺	他不愿做出任何cheng2nuo4。	He would not commit himself in any way.
收藏	这是shou1cang2的一批中国玉器。	It's a collection of Chinese jade.
神经	街上的噪音使她shen2jing1紧张。	Her nerves were frayed by the noises in the street.
袭击	他被一头野猪xi2ji1。	He was attacked by a wild boar.
熬	ao2几个晚上对任何人绝无害处.	A few late nights never did anyone any harm.
成员	这个党的核心cheng2yuan2决定一切。	The hard core in the party make all the decisions.
忙碌	他通常是mang2lu4的。	He is usually busy.
愤怒	我咬牙切齿fen4nu4已极。	I was gnashing my teeth with rage.
依旧	她yi1jiu4是那个老样。	She still looks her old self.
同志	陆tong2zhi4表现突出，是一个劳动模范。	Comrade Lu stands forth as a model worker.
诱惑	魔鬼you4huo4了亚当和夏娃.	The Devil tempted Adam and Eve.
造型	圆凸线一种窄的凸圆zao4xing2	A narrow, convex molding.
毒品	法律禁止贩卖du2pin3.	The sale of narcotics is proscribed by law.
降临	一场大难jiang4lin2到他的头上.	A great misfortune befell him.
革命	我们应该发扬ge2ming4传统。	We shall carry forward the revolutionary tradition.
当初	他dang1chu1刚到伦敦时很孤单.	He was very lonely at first when he moved to London.
跟踪	警方在gen1zong1追捕他。	The police are hot on his trail.
恐惧	仇恨常常源於kong3ju4.	Hatred often springs from fear.
搭配	＂Belong＂习惯上与""to""da1pei4。	Belong"" collocates with ""to"".
眼神	她以崇拜的yan3shen2看着他。	She looked at him in an adoring manner.
嫉妒	他ji2du4她挣的比他多.	He grudges her earning more than he does.
本人	ben3ren2对案情陈述完毕.	I rest my case.
崩溃	所以他们在执政的最后一年就彻底beng1kui4了。	And they go to pieces completely in the last year.
展示	那个国家将要zhan3shi4埃及木乃伊。	There will be an Egyptian mummy show in that country.
难得	她nan2de2看电影.	She seldom, if ever, goes to the cinema.
队伍	我看见dui4wu5走过.	I saw the procession pass by.
卷	壁纸是成juan3买的.	Wallpaper is bought in rolls.
州	美国有多少zhou1?	How many States are there in the United States of America?
尴尬	泰然自若，沉着不受影响或不gan1ga4；冷静	Freedom from affectation or embarrassment; composure.
警告	不顾他们的jing3gao4	Neglected their warnings.
绑架	他们发誓要向bang3jia4者报仇.	They swore to take their revenge on the kidnappers.
社区	一种顽固的社会恶习扩散到整个she4qu1	A cancer of bigotry spread through the community.
公民	她是个守法的gong1min2。	She is a lawful citizen.
代价	你必须为此付出dai4jia4。	You'll have to pay for that.
对付	他是个很难dui4fu5的人。	He was a difficult man to deal with.
默默	他们惊讶地mo4mo4凝视那奇景。	They stared at the strange sight in silent wonder.
天生	他tian1sheng1有音乐才能。	He is endowed with a gift in music by nature.
回报	投资的收益投资获利；hui2bao4	A profit obtained from an investment; a return.
镜头	jing4tou2转换到一座坟墓。	The scene shifted to a sepulcher.
背叛	他非但不接受我的劝告，反而bei4pan4了我。	Far from accepting my advice, he went back on me.
事故	shi4gu4发生在六点钟。	The accident happened at six o'clock.
爆发	他的压抑终于bao4fa1了。	His repression broke out.
惊讶	他jing1ya4地竖起了眉毛。	His brows went up in surprise.
诞生	我极想看看那国王dan4sheng1的房子。	I am curious to see the house where the king was born.
间谍	那女jian4die2伪装成顾问工程师.	The spy's cover was that she was a consultant engineer.
逮捕	我按企图盗窃罪dai4bu3你.	I am placing you under arrest for attempted burglary.
渴望	他ke3wang4回到故乡。	He yearned to return to his native land.
监视	警方对疑犯昼夜jian1shi4.	The police are keeping the suspects under round-the-clock surveillance.
在意	老师对于我的迟到并不zai4yi4。	Our teacher didn't mind my coming in late.
抛弃	他pao1qi4了一切禁忌.	He cast aside all his inhibitions.
宇宙	yu3zhou4存在于太空。	The universe exists in space.
毫无	她hao2wu2幽默感。	She had no sense of humor.
迷人	她姿色mi2ren2，因而评委都偏向她。	Her charm prejudiced the judges in her favour.
提示	她需要不时给予ti2shi4.	She needed an occasional prompt.
确保	我们及早订票以que4bao3有座。	We book early to assure ourselves of seats.
角落	喜讯传遍了祖国的每个jiao3luo4。	The good news spread to every corner of the country.
信仰	世界上有许多种宗教xin4yang3。	There are many religions in the world.
荣幸	很rong2xing4同您见面。	I'm honored to meet you.
任意	从一副牌中ren4yi4选出一张	Chose a card at random from the deck.
突破	示威群众tu1po4了警戒线.	Demonstrators broke through the police cordon.
牺牲	向女神祭献了一头xi1sheng1小牛.	A calf was offered up as a sacrifice to the goddess.
无辜	我倾向于相信他的wu2gu1。	I'm inclined to believe him innocent.
宁愿	我ning4yuan4看处于野生状态的动物。	I prefer to see animals living in their natural state.
忍受	我再也不能ren3shou4了。	I can't stick it any more.
生物	人是有理性的sheng1wu4。	Man is a rational being.
版本	这本字典的新ban3ben3还未通行。	The new version of this dictionary is not in use yet.
释放	奴隶们被shi4fang4了。	The slaves were enfranchised.
绝望	他jue2wang4地叹了口气。	He sighed with despair.
军队	jun1dui4在移动.	The army is on the move.
乐趣	她感到了写作的le4qu4。	She discovered the joy of writing.
脆弱	这个错误证明他也是个凡人；人的cui4ruo4	A mistake that shows he's only human; human frailty.
乐意	我le4yi4和你去。	I am willing to go with you.
艰难	jian1nan2时期；动乱时代	Hard times; a time of troubles.
机构	议会是政府的一个ji1gou4。	Parliament is an organ of government.
欺骗	他以友谊为掩护qi1pian4了我们。	He cheated us under the guise of friendship.
装备	zhuang1bei4摄影室的开支很大.	The equipment of the photographic studio was expensive.
生存	没有一个人可以不呼吸而sheng1cun2。	No one can live without breathing.
暴力	他性情温和, 讨厌bao4li4.	Violence is abhorrent to his gentle nature.
夫妇	邻居的fu1-fu4总吵架.	The couple next door are always arguing.
感染	我看我已经受细菌gan3ran3了.	I think I've caught a bug.
人间	ren2jian1若有天堂, 非此莫属!	If there's a heaven on earth, this is it!
执行	我开始zhi2xing2计划。	I set a project afoot.
完毕	庄稼已妥善收获wan2bi4.	The harvest has been safely gathered in.
进展	我们jin4zhan3顺利.	We're getting along swimmingly.
欲望	他是个没什麽yu4wang4的人.	He is a man of few wants.
危机	两国关系已达到出现wei1ji1的地步。	Relation between the two countries has reached a crisis point.
期望	结果超出了我们的qi1wang4。	The results have gone beyond our hopes.
亲密	qin1mi4稳固的友谊；qin1mi4	Established friendship; intimacy.
哼	她独自heng1着歌。	She was humming to herself.
扣	我的手提包的kou4坏了.	The catch on my handbag is broken.
无比	你肯光临使我们感到wu2bi3荣幸.	You do us a great honour by attending.
皆	人jie1有一死.	All men must die.
美妙	mei3miao4的音乐在我心中回荡。	The beautiful melody is lingering in my mind.
灵感	她的演说对于听众来说永远是ling2gan3之源。	Her speeches have ever been a fount of inspiration to her audiences.
文艺	我们的wen2yi4必须为大众所喜闻乐见。	Our literature and art ought to cater to popular taste.
打击	她丈夫一死她受到沉重的da3ji1.	She took a bad knock when her husband died.
新娘	像片上xin1niang2照得很好.	The bride comes out well (ie looks attractive) in the photographs.
仪式	抽彩yi2shi4星期六举行.	The draw for the raffle takes place on Saturday.
捏	他把黏土nie1成形。	He pinched the clay into shape.
气质	他的性格中有少许忧郁的qi4zhi4。	There is a vein of melancholy in his character.
抢劫	他声称他遭到qiang3jie2.	He made out that he had been robbed.
基地	那位海军军官让他离开ji1di4。	The naval officer asked him to stay away from the base.
打架	我不想da3jia4.	I had no stomach for a fight.
欺负	别让那些大孩子qi1fu5你, 要保护你自己!	Don't allow those big boys to bully you; stick up for yourself!
立场	他总是坚持自己的li4chang3。	He always stands his ground.
案件	这律师免费承办那个an4jian4。	The lawyer undertook the case without a fee.
动力	他没有努力工作的dong4li4。	He hasn't much incentive to work hard.
协议	我们最终达成了xie2yi4。	Finally we reached an agreement.
惩罚	他应当受到cheng2fa2。	He deserved to be punished.
动手	别跟他dong4shou3, 他揍起人来可凶了.	Don't get into a fight with him: he can really dish it out.
魔术	这纸mo2shu4般地变成了绿色。	The paper turned green as if by magic.
娃娃	那孩子（怀里）抱著玩具wa2wa5.	The child cuddled her doll (to her chest).
往事	wang3shi4一齐涌上我心头.	Memories crowded in on me.
指甲	她zhi3jia5鲜红.	Her finger-nails were blood-red.
统统	我把那旧家具tong3tong3扔掉了，真是谢天谢地！	I've thrown out all the old furniture, and good riddance!
中央	那只船划出到了河zhong1yang1.	The boat pulled out into the middle of the river.
果断	guo3duan4，决断性格或行动的坚定；坚决	Firmness of character or action; determination.
起码	食物尽管不好，但qi3ma3很便宜。	The food wasn't good, but at least it was cheap.
滋味	他现在尝到了失败的zi1wei4。	He has now tasted of failure.
解雇	他被他的老板jie3gu4了。	He was fired by his boss.
艘	这sou1船从事远洋渔业。	The ship is engaged in pelagic fishery.
天才	他是一个数学tian1cai2。	He is a mathematical genius.
清理	你应该经常qing1li3房间。	You should always clean up the room.
本身	该图表ben3shen1即很清楚.	The diagram is self-explanatory.
化妆	她hua4zhuang1太浓.	She wears far too much paint.
指望	我zhi3wang5你来安排一切。	I am banking upon you to help me with arrangements.
心疼	在你们姐妹中，我最xin1teng2你。	Of all your sisters, I love you best.
痕迹	他擦去铅笔的hen2ji4。	He erases pencil marks.
摆脱	他bai3tuo1不了精神负担。	He wasn't rid of the mental burden.
潮流	青少年经常反chao2liu2而动.	Teenagers often go against the stream.
类似	大蕉lei4si4于香蕉。	A plantain is similar to a banana.
集团	该公司以前隶属於一个国际银行ji2tuan2.	The company formerly belonged to an international banking group.
混乱	因风雪交加道路上hun4luan4不堪.	The wintry weather has caused chaos on the roads.
残酷	命运有时是can2ku4的。	Destiny is sometimes cruel.
技巧	手艺双手的ji4qiao3和能力	Skill and facility with the hands.
沉重	我觉得心头chen2zhong4。	I've got a lot on my mind.
罪犯	zui4fan4被判处死刑。	The criminal was sentenced to capital punishment.
屏幕	敌舰的影像已显现在雷达（ping2mu4）上.	Enemy ships were detected on the radar (screen).
联盟	这个lian2meng2经受了战争的严峻考验.	The alliance had been forged in the crucible of war.
拜访	他要在春节期间bai4fang3叔叔。	He is to visit his uncle during the Spring Festival.
和谐	不协调的；不he2xie2的	Lacking in harmony.
幼稚	他们嘲笑他的做法很you4zhi4。	They derided his efforts as childish.
情报	他被假qing2bao4诱骗进入敌区。	He was decoyed by a false message into enemy territory.
疾病	苍蝇能传播ji2bing4.	Flies spread disease.
野蛮	极为ye3man2的；残忍的	Extremely savage; fierce.
达成	已da2cheng2和解.	An amicable settlement was reached.
荣誉	军人应视rong2yu4重於生命吗?	Should a soldier value honour above life?
喉咙	我因为hou2long2痛没有去上班。	I was off work because of a sore throat.
感慨	他gan3kai3万千，用力握了一下她的手，离开了她。	Overcome with emotion, he pressed her hand and left her.
擅长	她shan4chang2绘画。	She is clever at painting.
人士	法律界ren2shi4对变革总是加以抵制.	The legal profession (ie lawyers) has/have always resisted change.
乘	以无穷数cheng2y.	Multiply y by infinity.
给予	该表扬就ji3yu3表扬.	Give credit where it's due.
栋	那是一dong4六层楼的房子。	That is a house of six stories.
挣扎	她zheng1zha2著想摆脱那个侵犯她的人.	She struggled to get away from her attacker.
随意	她喜欢sui2yi4送礼物。	She likes to give out presents.
带领	导游dai4ling3游客参观博物馆.	A guide conducted the visitors round the museum.
区域	他似乎现在住在这个qu1yu4。	He lives seemingly now in this area.
遥远	他在想那些日子现在已显得多麽yao2yuan3.	How distant those times seemed now, he reflected.
慈善	ci2shan4事业依靠自愿捐赠.	Charities rely on voluntary donations/contributions.
转移	导弹在护卫之下zhuan3yi2.	The missiles were moved under convoy.
码头	我们靠ma3tou5停泊.	We moored alongside the quay.
助手	我的zhu4shou3将操纵录音机.	My assistant will operate the tape-recorder.
贼	警察订下了计划捉zei2。	The police worked out a plan to catch the thief.
维生素	橙子含有wei2sheng1su4C。	Oranges contain vitamin C.
宽容	这个国王没有kuan1rong2之心，杀死了所有的犯人。	The king showed no mercy and killed all the prisoners.
磅	土豆每bang420便士.	Potatoes are 20 pence a pound.
即便	我ji2bian4听了他的解释, 仍然不明白.	Even after listening to his explanation I'm none the wiser.
依靠	盲人在很大程度上yi1kao4触觉.	Blind people rely a lot on touch.
华丽	他讲起话来辞藻过于hua2li4。	His speeches are too flowery.
争夺	士兵们为zheng1duo2每一寸土地而斗争。	The soldiers contested every inch of ground.
趴	有人发现她pa1在小屋的地板上.	She was found prostrate on the floor of the cell.
嘲笑	不要chao2xiao4他。	Don't laugh at him.
陷入	谈判xian4ru4僵局.	The negotiations have reached deadlock.
保姆	那个退休妇女是个临时bao3mu3。	That retired woman is a baby-sitter.
拼命	他为了养家不得不去pin1ming4工作。	He had to work hard for the maintenance of his family.
发觉	我fa1jue2她态度上有所转变。	I detected a change in her attitude.
异常	昨夜隔壁有些yi4chang2.	There were some strange goings-on next door last night.
残忍	取笑一个瞎子是can2ren3的。	It's cruel to make fun of a blind man.
关怀	在妻子体贴入微的guan1huai2下，他很快就痊愈了。	He recovered soon under his wife's tender loving care.
理智	他最後恢复些li3zhi4, 同意释放人质.	He was finally brought to his senses and agreed to let the hostages go.
维持	主席敲击桌子以wei2chi2秩序。	The chairman rapped on the table for order.
依赖	他越来越yi1lai4她了.	He grew increasingly to rely on her.
循环	四季xun2huan2交替。	The seasons follow each other in rotation.
珍贵	熊猫是zhen1gui4的动物。	Pandas are precious creatures.
党	他不赞成改变dang3的方针。	He deprecates changing the party's policy.
症状	十天後出现了zheng4zhuang4.	The symptoms manifested themselves ten days later.
周年	你是怎样庆祝结婚zhou1nian2纪念日的？	How did you celebrate your wedding anniversary?
毁灭	一切都hui3mie4了.	Everything was destroyed.
扮演	他化装ban4yan3一个老头儿。	He made up for the part of an old man.
哭泣	【谚】欢笑，整个世界伴你欢笑。ku1qi4，只有你独自向隅而泣。	Laugh, and the world laughs with you; Weep, and you weep alone.
天赋	他有音乐tian1fu4。	He has a gift for music.
风暴	夜间起feng1bao4了.	A storm arose during the night.
坦白	连哄带劝他才tan3bai2.	The confession had to be cajoled out of him.
考验	士兵的勇气在战斗中得到kao3yan4。	A soldier's courage is put to the proof in battle.
辉煌	那座宫殿灯火hui1huang2.	The palace was ablaze with lights.
过于	请别为此guo4yu2不快。	Please don't take it too hard.
活力	她充满了青春和huo2li4.	She is full of youth and vitality.
癌症	ai2zheng4是一种顽症。	Cancer is a kind of persistent ailment.
震惊	他逝世的消息使人zhen4jing1.	The news of his death was a bombshell.
黎明	步兵li2ming2时开始进入战斗位置.	The infantry began to deploy at dawn.
扎	我想帮忙你捆zha1东西。	I would like to help you pack.
思维	正是希腊人影响了西方人的si1wei2。	It was the Greeks who shaped the thinking of Western man.
确信	我们que4xin4能胜利。	We are confident of victory.
面子	他为人诚实，不计较mian4zi5，对于别人的批评一点也不在乎。	He has an honest nature and a thick skin, and never cares a bit about other people's criticisms.
超越	chao1yue4职权范围做某事	Go beyond one's duty in doing sth.
清晨	鸟儿在qing1chen2高声歌唱。	Birds sing loudest in the early morning.
遭遇	zao1yu4海难的水手已经被直升机救起。	The shipwrecked sailors were rescued by helicopter.
忠诚	他的zhong1cheng2无可置疑。	His loyalty is above suspicion.
平凡	ping2fan2，琐屑ping2fan2、琐屑的性质或状态	The quality or condition of being trivial.
气象	气候学对气候及其引起的现象进行的qi4xiang4研究	The meteorological study of climates and their phenomena.
流氓	那个liu2mang2靠行骗为生。	The rascal lives on the credulity of the people.
浑身	我hun2shen1疼痛。	I ache all over.
来源	这消息来自可靠的lai2yuan2。	The news comes from a reliable source.
清晰	如此痛切而qing1xi1！	Burst agonized and clear!
联络	我怎样能跟你lian2luo4上？	How can I get in touch with you?
素质	她具备做一个优秀教师的su4zhi4	She has the makings of a fine teacher.
晃	他直huang3脑袋.	His head keeps jerking.
时机	你得等候适当shi2ji1.	You'll have to watch for the right moment.
领袖	ling3xiu4或指挥官；首领	A leader or commander; a chief.
震撼	许多人到国外时，都感受到文化zhen4han4。	Many people suffered from cultural shock when they came abroad.
消除	尽量xiao1chu2一切偏见.	Try to free yourself from all prejudices.
值班	按照规定，任何时候均需有人zhi2ban1。	The rule is that someone must be on duty at all times.
证实	英国政府对这些报道不予zheng4shi2.	Whitehall is/are refusing to confirm the reports.
拨	bo1100找接线员。	Dial 100 for the operator.
正月	zheng1yue4是一年当中最冷的月份。	January is the coldest month in a year.
进攻	他们决定夜晚jin4gong1.	They decided to attack at night.
剧本	这是美国作家写的ju4ben3。	This is a play written by an American author.
本事	她有处变不惊的ben3shi5.	She has the ability to keep calm in an emergency.
成交	这笔生意应於明天顺利cheng2jiao1.	The deal should be buttoned up by tomorrow.
强迫	老板qiang3po4他做此难事。	The boss forced this difficult task upon him.
膝盖	他xi1gai4酸痛。	He has a pain in the knee.
操作	我cao1zuo4机器。	I operate a machine.
报复	他意识到黑手党要来bao4fu4他。	He thinks the Mafia are out to get him.
过度	饮酒guo4du4的人常常失去记忆。	Alcoholics often suffer from periods of oblivion.
非法	那是fei1fa3集会。	It's an unlawful assembly.
可恶	凶杀是最ke3wu4的犯罪。	Murder is the most abominable crime.
脂肪	zhi1fang2食品；zhi1fang2沉淀	Fatty food; fatty deposits.
漫长	战胜癌症的征途是man4chang2的，而且布满意想不到的困难。	The road to the conquest of cancer is long and full of pitfall.
坚定	我知道她意志jian1ding4。	I know she is steady in her purpose.
外表	他wai4biao3平庸。	He has a bland appearance.
保重	多bao3zhong4。再见。	Take care. bye!
患者	牙科医生常常给huan4zhe3补牙.	A dentist often has to fill teeth.
清洁	猫很爱qing1jie2.	Cats are cleanly animals.
揍	他的粗鲁惹得我zou4了他。	His rudeness provoked me to strike him.
哄	她hong1得婴儿一笑.	She coaxed a smile from the baby.
元素	这两种yuan2su4已经化学合成.	The two elements are synthesized by a chemical process.
政策	实行一项新zheng4ce4	Carry out a new policy.
不止	他的钱是我的三倍还bu4zhi3。	He has more than three times my money.
审判	shen3pan4延续了6天。	The trial lasted six days.
鉴于	jian4yu2税务原因，我们得组成公司。	We had to incorporate for a company for tax reasons.
选举	下届xuan3ju3我可能选她。	I may vote for her at the next election.
酒精	醉酒愉快的沉醉，如jiu3jing1	Pleasant intoxication, as from alcohol.
终究	沿这条小径走zhong1jiu1会见到大路的。	Follow the footpath and you'll eventually hit the road.
解放	jie3fang4军队获得了大部分奖牌。	The army team carried off most of the medals.
饮食	管理部门将供应yin3shi2.	The management will provide food and drink.
十足	他是个shi2zu2的怪人!	He's quite an individual!
疲惫	她因长途骑车而pi2bei4不堪.	The long cycle ride exhausted her.
保密	你已发过誓要bao3mi4.	You are under pledge of secrecy.
看待	我把他当作朋友kan4dai4。	I regard him as a friend.
防止	他们已经开始fang2zhi3犯罪行为。	They have begun to do the prevention of crime.
访问	我正盼望去fang3wen4欧洲。	I'm hoping to visit Europe.
注射	那吗啡是zhu4she4进去的.	The morphine was administered by injection.
鄙视	他拒不承担责任，我bi3shi4他。	I despise his refusing to accept responsibility.
暗示	她神秘地an4shi4著事非寻常.	She hinted darkly at strange events.
眼光	他的yan3guang1转向了电话机。	His eyes shifted to the telephone.
充实	充满信息的；内容chong1shi2的	Full of news; informative.
隐瞒	一个男人对妻子yin3man2事情是不对的。	It is wrong for a man to conceal things from his wife.
基金	我们有权处置的ji1jin1	Funds at our disposal.
民主	min2zhu3是自由的保障.	Democracy is a bulwark of freedom.
动机	他的dong4ji1是好的.	He was acting from the best of motives.
绅士	温文有礼是shen1shi4的特质。	Politeness is the attribute of a gentleman.
细胞	人体的组织是由xi4bao1构成的.	Human tissue is made up of cells.
莫名其妙	她行为古怪我感到mo4 ming2 qi2 miao4.	I was puzzled by the oddity of her behaviour.
枕头	她把zhen3tou5弄得鼓鼓的.	She plumped up the pillows.
计较	只要把它完成了，你怎么做我并不ji4jiao4。	I'm not particular how you do it as long as it gets done.
沮丧	这是一个令人ju3sang4的日子。	It's a gloomy day.
开除	校长决定kai1chu2该生以儆效尤.	The headmaster decided to make an example of the pupil and expel him from the school.
任性	我老婆有一般铁一般的ren4xing4脾气。	My wife has a whim of iron.
亚军	赢得总统杯以后，球队满怀信心地迎接联赛的冠ya4jun1决赛。	Having won the President Cup, the team got their tails up for the final of the league championship.
发射	我们已fa1she4升空.	We have lift-off.
正义	zheng4yi4一定会战胜非zheng4yi4。	Justice will prevail over injustice.
情节	那电影的qing2jie2是老掉牙的。	The film had a rather tired plot.
罐	把食品装guan4加以保存。	Food is tinned to preserve it.
记载	历史ji4zai3历代重要的事件。	History chronicles important events of the past.
回顾	她hui2gu4结婚的那一天.	She cast her mind back to her wedding-day.
消灭	我们一定要xiao1mie4恐怖主义。	We are determined to smash terrorism.
需求	我们预料xu1qiu2可能增加.	We anticipate that demand is likely to increase.
人性	ren2xing4厌恶这样的罪行。	Human nature revolts at such a crime.
煎	你较喜欢油jian1香肠吗?	Do you like fried sausages more?
灾难	这次地震是个可怕的zai1nan4。	The earthquake was a terrible catastrophe.
助理	助教学校中的zhu4li3教员	An assistant teacher in a school.
舌头	你竟敢冲我吐she2tou5!	Don't you dare stick your tongue out at me!
太空	也许tai4kong1的智慧生物已经访问过地球。	Maybe the earth has been visited by intelligent creatures from outer space.
肺	fei4是呼吸器官。	The lungs are respiratory organs.
反抗	殖民地人民fan3kang4他们的英国统治者。	The colonists revolted against their British ruler.
尊严	注重zun1yan2的人都会轻视那种行为。	All people with a sense of decency will look down upon such conduct as that.
旋转	那风筝在空中不断地xuan2zhuan3。	The kite circled round and round.
当前	电视观众来信表示对dang1qian2节目不满.	Letters from viewers express their dissatisfaction with current programmes.
顿时	喜讯传来，人们dun4shi2欢呼起来。	People broke into cheers at once when they heard the good news.
信念	他按照自己的xin4nian4行事。	He acted in accordance with his beliefs.
节奏	我喜欢jie2zou4快的音乐。	I like fast music.
探索	宇宙tan4suo3仍处于初级阶段	Space exploration is still in its infancy.
包装	铝箔用于bao1zhuang1食物。	Aluminum foil can be used for wrapping food.
场面	那chang3mian4使她反感。	She was revolted at the scene.
皇后	轮到huang2hou4时，她脸红了。	The Queen looked blushed in her turn.
嫌	改过不xian2迟。	It's never too late to mend.
制服	他穿着zhi4fu2十分精神。	He looks very manly in his uniform.
负担	超载的装载过多的或fu4dan1过重的	Loaded or burdened too heavily.
光荣	她是同行的guang1rong2.	She is an honour to her profession.
被告	bei4gao4被控偷窃。	The defendant is accused of theft.
创新	麻醉是一项伟大的医学chuang4xin1。	Anesthesia was a great innovation in medicine.
人质	他们相互交换了ren2zhi4.	They exchanged hostages with each other.
弥补	mi2bu3的用作修补物的或与之有关的	Serving as or relating to a prosthesis.
良心	你在liang2xin1上总不能认为那样的报酬算是合理的吧.	You cannot in all conscience regard that as fair pay.
喜悦	我内心充满xi3yue4。	My heart swam with joy.
宗教	他精通世界上的神秘zong1jiao4。	He is an expert on the world's mystical religions.
暴露	那时他没bao4lu4他的身份。	He didn't reveal his identity at that time.
足以	他跑得飞快，zu2yi3抓住那小偷。	He ran fast enough to catch the thief.
发财	许多人力求fa1cai2但都未成功。	Many a man has tried to get rich without success.
透露	她的秘密至今仍未tou4lu4。	Her secret remains untold by now.
古怪	新老板有点gu3guai4.	The new boss is a bit of an oddball.
卫星	月球是地球的wei4xing1.	The moon is the Earth's satellite.
设置	警方在广场的入口处she4zhi4了路障.	The police barricaded off the entrance to the square.
动员	学生们很快就dong4yuan2起来了。	The student mobilize quickly.
搓	把那绳子再cuo1几下.	Give the rope a few more twists.
人格	你竟敢诽谤我妻子的ren2ge2!	How dare you cast aspersions on my wife's character!
辩护	bian4hu4律师提出理由认为证据不充分.	The defence argue/argues that the evidence is weak.
捧	他用手把硬币peng3了起来.	He scooped the coins up in his hands.
压抑	他的童年是ya1yi4而孤独的。	His childhood was repressed and solitary.
奇妙	极好的某种东西出奇地好或qi2miao4的	Something exceptionally exciting or wonderful.
犬	【谚】吠quan3不咬人。	Barking dogs seldom bite.
染	这块布料ran3的不好。	This piece of cloth has bad coloration.
竞选	在明年的重选中她参加jing4xuan3。	She comes up for re-election next year.
试验	有些科学家用动物做shi4yan4。	Some scientists experiment on animals.
并非	他们bing4fei1同宗。	They are not of the same blood.
领先	该冠军ling3xian1十八秒.	The champion is leading by eighteen seconds.
混合	你不能把油和水hun4he2。	You can't mix oil with water.
跌	他推我，我die1了下来。	He pushed me and I fell over.
纯粹	那chun2cui4是捏造的!	That's pure fabrication!
精致	这本小册子做得很jing1zhi4。	This booklet is delicately made.
要命	她愁得yao4ming4。	She was frantic with worry.
协会	她加入了大学里的艺术xie2hui4。	She joined the university art society.
主管	有传闻说zhu3guan3已经辞职了.	There's a buzz going round that the boss has resigned.
骚扰	那只sao1rao3绵羊的狗被杀死了。	The dog that molested the sheep was killed.
童话	在这个tong2hua4中，主角是个丑陋顽皮的小妖精。	The hero in this fairy story is an ugly goblin.
维护	你一定要wei2hu4自己的权利.	You must stand up for your rights.
出卖	他不是chu1mai4我们的人。	He is not the man selling us.
鉴定	血缘jian4ding4血统的联系；来历	A line of descent; derivation.
荒谬	多麽huang1miu4的念头!	What a ridiculous idea!
神圣	我们应该尊重婚姻的shen2sheng4。	We should respect the sanctity of marriage.
保卫	这些勇敢的士兵会bao3wei4我们的国家的。	These gallant soldiers will protect our country.
当事人	该公司不是此协议的dang1shi4ren2。	The company is not a party to the agreement.
冲突	示威者与警察发生chong1tu1.	Demonstrators clashed with police.
支援	他们主动捐款zhi1yuan2此事.	They pitched in with contributions of money.
保守	她在衣著上很bao3shou3.	She is conservative in the way she dresses.
挫折	他是那种碰到cuo4zhe2就万分苦恼的人。	He's the sort of man whom setbacks weigh very heavily.
部位	前方直接在前面的地区、bu4wei4或位置	The area, location, or position directly before or ahead.
补偿	我的工作虽苦，但也有所bu3chang2。	My job is hard, but it has its compensation.
冒犯	如有mao4fan4之处，请多多原谅。	If I have offended you, I ask your pardon.
智能	zhi4neng2并不像品性那样有影响。	It is not intellect that tells so much as character.
流浪	那个liu2lang4乞丐乔装得同侦探一样。	The tramp was none other than a detective in disguise.
职位	他们俩都想得到这zhi2wei4。	They both try for the position.
固执	别这么gu4zhi2！	Don't be so obstinate!
倾听	我们坐着qing1ting1海浪的声音。	We sat listening to the sound of the waves.
终点	zhong1dian3已经在望。	The destination is in view.
呈现	庆祝活动cheng2xian4一派宏伟的景象。	The celebrations provided a magnificent spectacle.
无能为力	我wu2 neng2 wei2 li4。	There is nothing I can do.
侮辱	劫持者对人质百般wu3ru3.	The highjackers inflicted all kinds of indignities on their captives.
扑	那只狗正向他pu1过去。	The dog is rushing at him.
叼	大猫diao1著小猫的颈背.	The cat picked up the kitten by the scruff of its neck.
基因	反应素个体血液中的一种抗体，可以对诸如气喘病和光粉热这些变态反应产生预先的ji1yin1处理	An antibody found in the blood of individuals having a genetic predisposition to allergies such as asthma and hay fever.
福利	他在社会fu2li4部工作。	He worked in community welfare department.
走廊	这zou3lang2通到他的办公室。	The corridor opens into his office.
提议	你的这项ti2yi4不甚恰当.	This proposal of yours hardly meets the case.
虚伪	她强烈谴责政府xu1wei3.	She strongly denounced the Government's hypocrisy.
挥霍	他hui1huo4掉了大部分钱财, 濒于破产。	He dissipated most of his money and was on the brink of bankruptcy.
排除	自杀的可能性已被pai2chu2。	The possibility of suicide was ruled out.
模样	你能给我形容一下那个窃贼的mu2yang4吗?	Can you give me a description of the thief?
创业	他决定单干chuang4ye4.	He decided to go it alone and start his own business.
意志	他yi4zhi4坚强。	He has indomitable will.
典型	老虎是猫科动物的dian3xing2。	The tiger is a representative of the cat family.
城堡	cheng2bao3的墙很厚。	The castle walls are very thick.
居民	入侵者打败了土著ju1min2.	The invaders prevailed over the native population.
奴隶	这个nu2li4被鞭打死。	The slave was strapped to death.
掩饰	他的焦虑难以yan3shi4。	It proved difficult to disguise his anxiety.
腐败	fu3bai4与犯罪携手并行。	Corruption and crime go hand in hand.
隔离	这个病人应该ge2li2.	This patient should be separated from the others.
岗位	卫兵们奉令不得离开gang3wei4.	The guards were ordered not to leave their posts.
对抗	她真有胆量, 竟敢dui4kang4上司.	It was courageous of her to opposeher boss.
侄子	他的zhi2zi5是一个粗野的年轻人。	His nephew is an uncouth young man.
复活	还魂尸借还魂术fu4huo2的尸体	A corpse revived in this way.
排练	休息之後我们继续pai2lian4合唱节目.	We continued to rehearse/continued rehearsing the chorus after the break.
隐私	侵犯的就要侵入或侵犯，如yin3si1的	Tending to intrude or encroach, as upon privacy.
容忍	所有这些我不会rong2ren3的。	I will not put up with all this.
炫耀	她喜欢xuan4yao4她的精美衣服。	She likes to show off her fine clothes.
纯洁	她是一个chun2jie2的女孩。	She is a pure girl.
优先	胜者有选择奖品的you1xian1权.	The winner has first pick of the prizes.
典礼	dian3li3进行得很顺利.	The ceremony went off without a hitch.
空虚	我觉得我很kong1xu1。	I feel I am in emptiness.
丁	我送她一束ding1香花。	I gave her a bunch of lilac.
铜	tong2和金都是金属。	Copper and gold are both metals.
祖国	我们忠于zu3guo2。	We are loyal to our motherland.
团结	总统号召全国人民tuan2jie2起来。	The President made a call for national unity.
场合	葬礼是个忧郁的chang3he2。	A funeral is a sombre occasion.
嘴唇	她舔湿了zui3chun2.	She moistened her lips with her tongue.
品质	pin3zhi4低劣的；寒酸的	Of inferior quality; shabby.
授予	将军被shou4yu3最高权力。	The general was girded with the supreme power.
创作	这位作家叙述了chuang4zuo4的过程.	The writer described the creative process.
陷阱	xian4jing3捕捉或诱捕的方式；圈套	A means of catching or ensnaring; a trap.
演奏	他yan3zou4的曲调全错了.	He played the tune all wrong.
策划	ce4hua4一个推翻政府的阴谋	Brew a plot to overthrow the government.
顾问	请来了专家担当政府gu4wen4.	Experts were brought in to advise the Government.
偏偏	要找他时，他pian1pian1不在。	He must needs go away when he was wanted.
规划	董事长用两小时阐述了公司的gui1hua4.	The chairman expatiated for two hours on his plans for the company.
声明	研究总统sheng1ming2的含义.	Study the implications of the president's statement.
迹象	有ji4xiang4表明物价将上涨。	There are some indications that the prices will rise.
火箭	现在随时都有huo3jian4发射.	Space rockets are being sent up all the time.
真理	以下是人生而平等的zhen1li3。	What follows is the truth that men are created equal.
武装	政府为到访的元首派出了wu3zhuang1卫队.	The government provided an armed escort for the visiting head of State.
目光	她因喜悦而mu4guang1炯炯.	Her eyes lit up with joy.
跪	他面带恳求的神态gui4在皇帝面前。	He knelt in front of the emperor with a look of entreaty.
踏实	树苗四周的泥土要好好ta1shi5，使树苗牢牢地扎根。	The soil around the plants should be well trodden down, so that they are firmly rooted.
堕落	道德败坏的；duo4luo4的	Morally corrupt; perverted.
光芒	幸福的guang1mang2从她的眼中散发出来。	Happiness radiated from her eyes.
阴谋	我看穿了他的yin1mou2。	I saw through his plot.
无知	我认为wu2zhi1是一种罪。	I guess ignorance must be a sin.
预言	我们都相信她的yu4yan2。	We all believed in her prediction.
清除	必须qing1chu2官僚习气。	It is necessary to get rid of bureaucratic practices.
横	轮船heng2着停泊在港口里。	The ship was anchored athwart at the harbor mouth.
石油	这些shi2you2将被精炼。	The oil will be refined.
仓库	他已由cang1ku4调到会计室任职.	He has transferredfrom the warehouse to the accounts office.
大不了	没什么da4bu5liao3的。	Think nothing of it.
赌博	du3bo2把他毁了.	Gambling was his destruction.
边缘	圆盘的bian1yuan2已用机器磨平[光].	The edge of the disc had been machined flat/smooth.
公正	这项裁决并非对每人都gong1zheng4.	The ruling was not fair to everyone.
拽	活动住房用汽车拖zhuai4的住所	A trailer or dwelling place on wheels.
协助	工具用于xie2zhu4工作的器具	An implement used to facilitate work.
勉强	她测验mian3qiang3及格.	She only just scraped through the test.
抵达	我们估计正午di3da2德里.	We reckon to arrive in Delhi at noon.
蜡烛	la4zhu2被风吹灭了。	The candle was blown out by the wind.
引擎	按这个按钮开动yin3qing2。	Press this button to start the engine.
机密	政府雇员宣誓不泄露官方ji1mi4.	Government employees swear an oath not to reveal official secrets.
放大	我计划fang4da4这张照片。	I planned to enlarge this photograph.
斗争	他绝望地放弃了dou4zheng1.	He gave up the struggle in despair.
井	jing3都乾了.	The wells ran dry.
金融	他是jin1rong2领域的投机者。	He is an adventurer in financial field.
皱纹	深深的zhou4wen2布上他的额头.	Deep furrows lined his brow.
统计	tong3ji4数字在括号里.	The statistics were given in parenthesis.
薪水	我xin1shui5的大部分都用来付房租了.	Most of my salary goes on/in (paying) rent.
厌恶	对鸡尾酒会的yan4wu4	An allergy to cocktail parties.
脱离	愿上帝拯救我们tuo1li2罪恶.	May God deliver us from evil.
汇报	他一到就会来这里hui4bao4的。	He will report back here as soon as he arrives.
昏迷	他从hun1mi2中醒过来。	He rallied from his coma.
掩护	炮火yan3hu4步兵前进.	Artillery gave cover (ie fired at the enemy to stop them firing back) while the infantry advanced.
衰老	疾病和shuai1lao3使她的模样变得认不出了。	Illness and age had changed her out of all recognition.
投诉	她tou2su4说她受到委屈.	She complained of the wrongs she had suffered.
一向	圣诞节期间生意yi1xiang4很好.	Trade is always good (ie Many goods are sold) over the Christmas period.
投降	你绝不能tou2xiang2。	You can in no way surrender.
品尝	我善于pin3chang2好酒。	I have a good palate for fine wine.
器官	肾脏是分泌尿液的qi4guan1。	The kidneys secrete urine.
颤抖	他的声音有点chan4dou3.	There was a tremble in his voice.
布置	bu4zhi4了六个席位.	Covers were laid for six.
掩盖	不要试图yan3gai4错误。	Do not try to cover a mistake.
标记	当　外面悬挂著三个球的biao1ji4.	Signs with three balls hang outside pawnbrokers' shops.
颁发	市长在学校运动会上ban1fa1奖品.	The mayor gave away the prizes at the school sports day.
圆满	这一切凑合起来使我们的假期yuan2man3过去。	Everything cooperated to make our holiday a success.
群众	qun2zhong4高呼赞成.	The crowd roared its approval.
皇帝	那个huang2di4是个残酷的专制君主。	That emperor was a cruel despot.
隧道	他们得钻过狭窄的sui4dao4.	They had to worm their way through the narrow tunnel.
悲惨	他过了一段bei1can3的生活。	He has lived one section of miserable life.
妥协	我们设法达成了某种临时的tuo3xie2.	We managed to achieve a kind of modus vivendi.
奢侈	她一生生活she1chi3。	She has lived in luxury all her life.
鸽子	ge1zi5是和平的象征。	The dove is the symbol of peace.
内涵	nei4han2一个名辞里固有的含义和暗含意思的总和	The sum of meanings and corresponding implications inherent in a term.
环节	开得好的钮眼是联系艺术与自然的唯一huan2jie2。	A really well- made buttonhole is the only link between art and nature.
潜力	那个国家的qian2li4很大，但文明程度还不够发达。	The country has a big potential but civilization there is still in the rough.
模型	制作小mo2xing2要手巧。	Making small models requires manual skill.
验证	他想一切办法来yan4zheng4这个理论。	He tried in every way to verify this theory.
指责	该报道对缺乏安全预防措施一事严加zhi3ze2.	The report was scathing about the lack of safety precautions.
热门	大家都在给他们心目中的re4men2参赛者加油, 暗使劲儿使之获胜.	The crowd were cheering their favourite on, willing her to win.
实施	新法规下月shi2shi1.	The new law comes into force next month.
活该	他揍了你我毫不同情——是你先打他的，你挨打huo2gai1。	I'm not sorry he hit you- it serves you fight for starting the fight!
明智	诚实是最ming2zhi4的。	Honesty is the best policy.
高潮	gao1chao2即将来到。	A climax is pending.
主义	这儿是共和zhu3yi4运动的据点。	Here is a stronghold of republicanism.
忍耐	我不能再ren3nai4了。	I can't put up with you any longer.
发动	军方fa1dong4了一场政变.	The army staged a coup (d'etat).
别墅	这所bie2shu4以古旧的风格而著名。	The villa is famous for its old style.
曲子	他用小号吹奏了一首qu3zi5。	He played a tune on his trumpet.
倾向	轻信的有信赖qing1xiang4的；信任的	Having a tendency to confide; trusting.
啃	耗子在墙上ken3了一个洞。	The rat gnawed a hole through the wall.
功效	效能有gong1xiao4的特征或性质	The quality or property of being efficient.
荒唐	别说这种huang1tang2话了!	Don't talk such utter rot!
动态	对市场dong4tai4，烦告货主意向如何？	Advise how shipper dispose towards market movement?
唠叨	别老lao2dao5你的那些问题，还是做些实际工作解决它们吧！	Stop dwelling on your problems and do something about them!
误解	你完全wu4jie3了我的意思。	You mistook my meaning entirely.
包围	部队已将该城bao1wei2.	Troops have surrounded the town.
一流	富孀，是惟一可以yi1liu2的价钱出售的二手货色。	Rich widows are the only secondhand goods that sell at first-class prices.
以往	他们的友谊跟yi3wang3一样亲密。	Their friendship was as close as ever it had been.
极限	一种有ji2xian4或界限的量值。	A quantity that has a limit or boundary.
美满	这个故事有一个mei3man3的结局。	The story has a happy ending.
机械	带动转盘旋转的ji1xie4装置坏了.	The mechanism that revolves the turntable is broken.
一如既往	yi1 ru2 ji4wang3，我们将继续每星期四开会。	We will continue to hold meetings on Thursdays, as heretofore.
保障	请您放心，还款是有bao3zhang4的。	Please rest assured that repayment is ensured.
种族	zhong3zu2关系是敏感的问题.	Race relations is a sensitive issue.
封锁	敌人的军舰feng1suo3了港口。	The enemy's ships blockaded the harbor.
麻痹	她两腿ma2bi4.	She is paralysed in both legs.
确切	我不知道que4qie4的日子。	I don't know the exact date.
奉献	他将一生feng4xian4给了音乐。	He devoted himself entirely to music.
使命	他认为当教士是自己的shi3ming4.	He believes it is his calling to become a priest.
诉讼	你只有靠su4song4了.	Your only recourse is legal action.
故障	设备中有gu4zhang4.	There's a bug in the system.
抗议	反复呼喊kang4yi4口号	Chanted defiant slogans.
检验	这种作品很难经得起认真的jian3yan4。	This work will hardly stand close examination.
季度	订费按ji4du4交付.	Subscriptions should be paid quarterly.
视线	火车仍在shi4xian4内。	The train is still in sight.
颇	前景似po1暗淡，但我们仍满怀希望。	The future looks rather gloomy, but we live in hope.
描绘	那是一幅miao2hui4春天景色的油画。	That is an oil painting of a landscape in spring.
防守	步兵fang2shou3甚佳。	The infantry are defending well.
血压	低xue4ya1不正常地低的xue4ya1	Abnormally low blood pressure.
卑鄙	他手法bei1bi3。	He plays dirty pool.
处境	我眼下的chu3jing4十分不妙。	I'm in a tight corner just at present.
成本	实际cheng2ben3比我们预料的高得多.	The actual cost was much higher than we had expected.
定义	词语的ding4yi4不应比所解释的词语更难理解.	Definitions should not be more difficult to understand than the words they define.
铺	在桌子上pu4上台布.	Cover the table with a cloth.
裁判	那个cai2pan4偏向那个队。	The umpire showed partiality for that team.
企图	他们qi3tu2推翻国王。	They attempted to overthrow the monarch.
麻木	她的心因悲伤而ma2mu4。	Her heart was numbed with grief.
伴随	ban4sui2着更年期的内分泌变化使很多妇女的情绪受到影响。	A lot of women are affected emotionally by the hormonal changes that accompany the change of life.
侵犯	他们qin1fan4了她的权力。	They infringed on her rights.
火焰	huo3yan4吞没了房子。	The fire swallowed up the house.
忧郁	他总是露出you1yu4的表情。	He always shows a doleful expression.
指示	我认真地按zhi3shi4办事.	I followed the instructions religiously.
判决	法庭的pan4jue2对他有利.	The court decided in his favour.
辐射	fu2she4作用已达到前所未有的程度.	Radiation reached unheard-of levels.
运行	月球绕地球yun4xing2。	The moon revolves around the earth.
刑事	一个青年因偷窃罪而在xing2shi4庭受审。	A youth was tried in the criminal court for stealing.
相声	终于播出xiang4sheng5了！	The cross- talk is on at last!
丢人	那孩子真diu1ren2!	What a performance the child made!
瞄准	他用手枪miao2zhun3我。	He covered me with a pistol.
支撑	此庙由粗大的柱子zhi1cheng1.	The temple is supported by massive columns.
原始	这本书是yuan2shi3民族神话集。	The book is about the mythologies of primitive races.
正经	别浪费时间了我们还有zheng4jing5事要做。	Stop footling about, we have serious work to do.
团体	他在几年前脱离了那个非法tuan2ti3。	He broke away from that lawless group years ago.
地步	我可决不至於下贱到骗人的di4bu4	I would never stoop to cheating.
作弊	考试zuo4bi4必予追究.	If you cheat in the exam you'll never get away with it.
抵抗	他再也di3kang4不住了.	He could resist no longer.
惊奇	我对他知识的渊博感到jing1qi2。	I was amazed at the extent of his knowledge.
轮胎	油污能腐蚀lun2tai1橡胶.	Oil and grease will rot the rubber of your tyres.
枯燥	感谢您使我们把ku1zao4的学习变成了巨大的乐趣。	Thank you for making learning not a dull thing but a great joy.
空白	在kong4bai2栏中写上你的名字。	Write your name in the blank.
口音	他说话带着美国英语kou3yin1。	He spoke with an American accent.
继承	她ji4cheng2了一大笔财产.	She inherited a large fortune.
向往	她xiang4wang3她逝去的青春。	She sighed for her lost youth.
极端	他ji2duan1反对种族歧视.	He is passionately opposed to racial discrimination.
额外	我们需要e2wai4的帮助.	We require extra help.
例外	每一种规则都有li4wai4。	There is no rule but has exceptions. (=There is no rule that doesn't have exceptions.)
预料	你yu4liao4会有麻烦吗?	Do you anticipate (meeting) any trouble?
扛	他把包裹kang2上了肩。	He hoisted the package over his shoulder.
钞票	信中夹chao1piao4最好寄挂号.	It's wise to register letters containing banknotes.
舔	她tian3湿了嘴唇.	She moistened her lips with her tongue.
先进	去年他被推选出席了xian1jin4工作者会议。	Last year he was chosen to attend a conference of advanced workers.
款式	这条裙子的kuan3shi4正当时令。	The style of this skirt is just in season.
打仗	那时正在da3zhang4。	The war was on then.
自卑	他们有些人养成了严重的zi4bei1感。	Some of them developed a great inferiority complex.
通讯	无线电tong1xun4已消除了空间的阻隔。	Radio communication has annihilated space.
性命	她以自我牺牲精神救了我们的xing4ming4.	Her self-sacrifice saved our lives.
手法	他的shou3fa3就是装病。	His ploy is to pretend to be ill.
挽回	他下的赌注连续获胜才wan3hui2了损失.	He retrieved his losses by betting on a succession of winners.
卡通	那人太阳穴上贴了一块膏药，看上去像个ka3tong1人物。	The man looks like a cartoon character with a plaster on his temple.
焦点	他总想成为注意力的jiao1dian3。	He always wants to be the focus of attention.
委托	她受wei3tuo1负责这项计划.	She was entrusted with the direction of the project.
现状	我对xian4zhuang4根本不满意。	I am not at all satisfied with the present situation.
终身	他zhong1shen1残废.	He has been an invalid all his life.
难堪	你是想让我nan2kan1吗?	Are you trying to embarrass me?
纤维	把xian1wei2捻成线束的人	One that twists fibers into thread.
评估	这种ping2gu1是不公平的。	The evaluation is unfair.
弱点	【谚】人皆有ruo4dian3。	Every man hath his weak side.
启程	她推迟到星期六qi3cheng2。	He put off his departure till Saturday.
分裂	阶级差异会造成国家的fen1lie4。	Class differences can divide a nation.
颠倒	那幅画上下dian1dao3了.	That picture is upside-down.
涉及	她因she4ji2诈骗罪而受审.	She was put on trial for fraud.
挖掘	掘墓者wa1jue2坟墓的人	One that digs graves.
无耻	他这样说真是wu2chi3！	It was brazen of him to say so!
信赖	她是个可以xin4lai4的人.	She's a woman who can be depended on.
陷害	被告说他受人xian4hai4了.	The accused man said he had been framed.
雇佣	老板gu4yong1了一些临时工。	The boss hired some temporary workers.
干扰	会议遭示威者gan1rao3而结束.	The meeting was closed after the demonstrators interrupted it.
携带	xie2dai4的免税酒不得超过八升。	You are restricted to eight liters of duty-free wine.
慷慨	他用钱kang1kai3。	He is liberal with his money.
精心	她jing1xin1照看孩子.	She takes great care of her children.
丧失	被修剪坏后sang4shi1生命力的植物	Plants that lost their vitality when badly pruned.
着迷	他对疯狂英语很zhao2mi2。	He is crazy about Crazy English.
赠送	我们班向学校zeng4song4了一幅画。	Our class presented the school with a picture.
级别	他的ji2bie2比我高。	He is above me in rank.
延续	面试yan2xu4了近一个小时	The interview lasted about an hour.
含义	再者, 我们还要考虑到法律方面的han2yi4.	Again, we have to consider the legal implications.
认定	她ren4ding4自己受到了迫害.	She persists in the belief/in believing that she is being persecuted.
摇摆	茅屋在风雨中yao2bai3。	The hut was shaking in the storm.
产业	信息chan3ye4在我国是新兴chan3ye4。	The information industry is an infant industry in our country.
情形	一个假设的qing2xing5	A hypothetical situation.
君子	jun1zi3协定通常不能在法律上得以强制执行。	A gentleman's agreement is not usually enforceable by law.
言论	人们有集会和发表yan2lun4的权利。	People have the rights of assembly and expression.
特意	这本书是我te4yi4为你买的。	I bought the book especially for you.
代理	总统生病时, 其职务交由副总统dai4li3.	When the President is ill, his duties devolve upon the Vice-President.
徘徊	有人看见他在花园中pai2huai2。	He was seen hanging about in the garden.
榜样	他被树立为我们的bang3yang4。	He was set up as our example.
新郎	大家纷纷向新娘xin1lang2祝福.	Good wishes showered (down) on the bride and bridegroom.
弹性	做田径服需要用tan2xing4强的料子。	For tracksuits you need material with plenty of stretch.
贪婪	她露出tan1lan2的表情。	She shows a covetous look.
统治	难以忍受的独裁tong3zhi4	Oppressive, dictatorial control.
举动	不恰当的ju3dong4	An improper act.
鼻涕	我头痛得很厉害，而且我的bi2ti4很多。	I have a bad headache and my nose run a lot.
许可	他们未经xu3ke3擅入该地.	They entered the area without permission.
种子	他们把zhong3zi5撒在地里。	They strewed seeds over the earth.
遗产	他父亲给他留下了一笔yi2chan3。	His father bequeathed him a fortune.
时常	蜜蜂采蜜shi2chang2使花受粉.	Flowers are often fertilized by bees as they gather nectar.
差别	这对我没什么cha1bie2。	It makes no difference to me.
之际	我与彼得情思未断zhi1ji4, 却遇上了哈里又生恋情.	I was still getting over Peter when I met and fell in love with Harry.
风光	边陲山区的feng1guang1美丽如画。	The mountains in the border area are as beautiful as a painting.
气味	干酪散发出强烈的qi4wei4。	The cheese was emitting a strong smell.
监督	你得雇个人jian1du1这一工程.	You must employ someone to oversee the project.
搅拌	把汤jiao3ban4一下.	Give the soup a stir.
拼搏	许多著名的人物都曾在挫折中奋争pin1bo2过。	Many famous men have ever struggled in setbacks.
局面	我们正处於一种全新的ju2mian4.	We're into a whole new ball game.
束缚	狐狸挣脱了shu4fu4跑掉了。	The fox broke loose and ran away.
报仇	她说她要向汤姆bao4chou2。	She said she would take her revenge on Tom.
资产	他计算出他的zi1chan3和负债总和。	He summed up his assets and liabilities.
激励	总统的讲话ji1li4国民更加努力.	The President's speech impelled the nation to greater efforts.
预算	你今年的yu4suan4数字十分准确.	Your budget figures were bang on this year.
保养	我对电脑的维修bao3yang3很在行。	Maintenance of PC is in my element.
转达	请向您母亲zhuan3da2我的祝愿。	Please convey my good wishes to your mother.
肿瘤	可触摸的zhong3liu2	A palpable tumor.
融化	太阳把雪rong2hua4掉了.	The sun has melted the snow away.
仁慈	她对犯人很ren2ci2.	She was merciful to the prisoners.
功劳	这个发明是他的gong1lao2。	He is credited with the invention.
盲目	受礼使人mang2mu4。	Gift blind the eyes.
场所	在公众chang3suo3遗弃杂物是妨害公众利益的.	It is antisocial to leave one's litter in public places.
等候	他们以唱歌来减轻deng3hou4的厌烦.	They alleviated the boredom of waiting by singing songs.
发行	这本杂志fa1xing2量很大。	This magazine has a large circulation.
抚养	她父亲fu3yang3她直到她结婚。	Her father supported her until she got married.
收音机	邻居从早到晚开着shou1yin1ji1。	The people next door play their radio from morning till night.
呕吐	ou3tu4ou3tu4的行为	The act of vomiting.
讨好	在选举前后政客们总要许愿tao3hao3民众。	Politicians bid for popular favour around election time.
敞开	窗帘在chang3kai1的窗户前摆动。	The curtains were flapping at the open window.
姿态	过分笔直，僵立的zi1tai4	An extremely stiff, erect posture.
散发	火山san4fa1着烟和灰。	A volcano emits smoke and ashes.
财务	我职掌cai2wu4。	I am in charge of financial affairs.
战术	这可以说是一个zhan4shu4的错误。	One may call it a mistake in tactics.
妄想	急欲获得的wang4xiang3权力或荣誉的；嫉妒的	Covetous of power or honor; envious.
预期	yu4qi1，预料预先采取的行为	The act of anticipating.
导弹	dao3dan4已偏离轨道.	The missile deflected from its trajectory.
联想	广告多通过启发人的lian2xiang3力而发挥作用.	Most advertisements work through suggestion.
坟墓	那些死去的战士被埋葬在fen2mu4里。	Those dead soldiers were buried in the tombs.
生理	sheng1li3伤残会引起心理苦闷.	Physical disability causes mental anguish.
不妨	我们bu4fang2买一只新煎锅。	We may just as well buy a new frying pan.
遭受	我zao1shou4牙痛之苦。	I've suffered agonies with toothache.
遗传	他从母方接受的yi2chuan2是良好的。	On the maternal side his inheritance was a happy one.
苏醒	他们使他su1xing3过来。	They brought him to.
棕色	她提　一个zong1se4的纸包，里面是书。	She was carrying a parcel of books done up in brown paper.
前提	他不根据qian2ti2推理因而论证无效.	This non sequitur invalidates his argument.
开朗	米kai1lang3琪罗在大理石上雕刻.	Michelangelo carved in marble.
伪造	假冒的，wei3zao4的	Counterfeit or fake.
挽救	报馆老板没能wan3jiu4该报的失败。	The newspaper owner failed to pull the paper round.
势力	我们藐视习惯shi4li5。	We are scornful of the forces of convention.
动静	有人在灌木丛里窥视dong4jing5.	Somebody'slurking in the bushes.
福气	他真有fu2qi5，从来不需要为金钱之事操心。	He is in the happy position of never having to worry about money.
愈	你yu4早戒烟yu4好。	You cannot quit smoking too soon.
着想	猫在门口哀叫zhuo2xiang3出去。	The cat whined at the door, asking to be let out.
贵族	封建gui4zu2对人民很残酷。	The feudal barons were cruel to the people.
习俗	你有过圣诞节的xi2su2吗？	Do you observe Christmas?
民间	它常被用作治疗蛇咬伤的min2jian1药物。	It is often used as folk medicine to cure snake bite.
认可	我得到法庭ren4ke3重新拥有这笔财产。	I've been authorised by the court to repossess this property.
偏见	历史常为pian1jian4所曲解。	Histories are often warped by biases.
资本	影响发展的主要障碍是缺乏zi1ben3.	The main impediment to growth was a lack of capital.
撤退	敌人狼狈che4tui4。	The enemy retreated in great confusion.
称号	她因这一成绩而获得第三个冠军cheng1hao4。	With this performance, she has notched up her third championship title.
迫不及待	我po4 bu4 ji2 dai4地想听到这个消息。	I can hardly wait to hear the news.
跟随	即便是天涯海角我也要gen1sui2他。	I will follow him to the uttermost parts of the earth.
轨道	该航天器在绕月球gui3dao4上飞行.	The spacecraft is in orbit (ie moving in orbit) round the moon.
细菌	消毒剂灭杀xi4jun1。	Disinfectant kills germs.
引导	我们在有人yin3dao3下参观了大教堂.	We were given a conducted (ie guided) tour of the cathedral.
懒惰	lan3duo4乃万恶之源。	Idleness is the root of all evil.
消耗	我们的食物储备已xiao1hao4殆尽.	Our stock of food is greatly depleted.
扩张	合乎条件的kuo4zhang1计划	A qualified plan for expansion.
蛋白质	你需要增加dan4bai2zhi4以增强体质.	You need more protein to build you up.
严寒	松树不畏yan2han2。	The pine trees defy severe cold.
戒备	部队解除了jie4bei4状态, 原来是虚惊一场.	The troops (were) stood down: it was a false alarm.
将近	这条新跑道jiang1jin4六英里长.	The new race track is nearly six miles in extent.
赞助	她要求zan4zhu4却遭到粗暴拒绝。	Her request for a donation met with a rude repulse.
束	她剪掉了一shu4头发。	She cut a wisp of hair off.
昔日	他们重逢时, xi1ri4之明争暗斗旋即死灰复燃.	Their old rivalry soon surfaced when they met again.
跨	kua4着以便kua4过或横过；横kua4	So as to straddle or bridge; astride.
调节	tiao2jie2tiao2jie2的行为或过程	The act or process of modulating.
留恋	有些人在戏院附近liu2lian4不去，希望看一看他们喜爱的演员。	Some people lingered about near the theatre, hoping to get a glimpse of their memory lingers on.
司法	申请人请求si1fa3检查以便废除责令某人守法的命令。	The applicant seek judicial review to quash the bind-over order.
故乡	我依恋gu4xiang1的一草一木。	I am attached to every tree and bush in my hometown.
刹车	公共汽车猛然sha1che1停住了。	The bus jerked to a stop.
缺陷	耳聋算是严重的que1xian4。	Deafness can be a serious handicap.
潜水	投入供人跳水或qian2shui3的地方或地区，如游泳池	A place or an area, such as a swimming pool, for diving or plunging.
指令	他严格遵守zhi3ling4.	He followed the instructions faithfully.
途径	细菌能从许多tu2jing4侵入我们。	The bacillus can attack us from many ways.
警惕	她对陌生人很jing3ti4。	She was wary of strangers.
当场	我决定dang1chang3立即就做。	I decided to do it then and there.
高尚	她的gao1shang4品格令人钦佩.	Her nobility of character made her much admired.
覆盖	路上fu4gai4了柏油。	The road was covered with tar.
责怪	请不要ze2guai4你自己。	Please don't blame yourself.
迷惑	他被玛丽的魅力mi2huo4, 对她苦缠不休。	He was smitten with Mary's attractions and laid siege to her heart.
床单	我想买一个新chuang2dan1。	I want to buy a new bed linen.
体谅	体贴的ti3liang5他人感情的	Considerate of the feelings of others.
高峰	旅游业在八月份达到gao1feng1。	Tourism is at its peak in August.
充足	我们的水果chong1zu2有余.	We have enough fruit and to spare.
忠实	zhong1shi2可靠一向使他受益匪浅.	Honesty has always been his best friend.
居住	他在国外ju1zhu4了许多年。	He lived abroad for many years.
电源	请把dian4yuan2关掉。	Please turn off the electric power.
酗酒	xu4jiu3是他一生的祸根。	Drink was the bane of his life.
拖延	一再的tuo1yan2打乱了全部安排。	The delays put the whole schedule out of joint.
安宁	我所要的只是an1ning2.	All I want is peace and quiet.
不时	她bu4shi2停下来休息.	At intervals she would stop for a rest.
家属	我jia1shu3低教会派.	My family is Low Church.
分散	搜索队在荒草地fen1san4行动.	The search party spread out over the moor.
服从	军人必须fu2cong2命令.	Soldiers must obey orders.
噪音	这种新型空调没有zao4yin1。	This new style of air conditioner is noiseless.
容器	rong2qi4用来盛物体的东西	A container for holding items.
仍旧	我不管目前化妆品的价格如何，这不重要，但你reng2jiu4得不到更多的零用钱。	I don't care how much make-up costs these days. That's not the point; you're still not getting any more pocket money.
赋予	fu4yu3特殊条件、天赋或优点的	Endowed with special gifts, talents, or advantages.
占据	这堡垒zhan4ju4控制地位.	The fort occupies a commanding position.
生态	动物sheng1tai4的高级形式；高等数学	High forms of animal life; higher mathematics.
珍珠	今天她戴了一条zhen1zhu1项链。	She wears a pearl necklace today.
氧气	鱼通过鳃摄取yang3qi4.	Fish take in oxygen through their gills.
跳跃	小羊在田野里tiao4yue4。	Lambs skipped in the field.
沉淀	把咖啡搅一搅好让渣滓chen2dian4.	Stir the coffee to settle the grounds.
沸腾	水fei4teng2而变成蒸汽.	When water boils it turns into steam.
合并	所有债务均已he2bing4.	All the debts have been consolidated.
推销	她负责tui1xiao1工作.	She is responsible for sales promotion.
摊	我已经计算出你应分tan1的费用是10英镑.	I've worked out your share of the expenses at 10.
从容	这个女孩cong2rong2地把砖堆砌起来	The girl stacked the blocks with deliberation.
谣言	城里yao2yan2四起.	Rumours swept through the town.
乞丐	那个qi3gai4饿得晕倒了。	The beggar fell down in a swoon from sheer hunger.
指定	这些书是zhi3ding4给他的。	These books are destined for him.
符号	铜的化学fu2hao4是Cu。	The chemical symbol for copper is ""Cu"".
片刻	我们整星期一直工作, 没有pian4ke4空闲.	We've been working all week without a moment's leisure.
埋伏	现在场景转到仓库，行凶者正mai2fu5在那里伺机行动。	And now the scene shifts to the warehouse, where the murderer is lying in wait.
温和	这个孩子性情wen1he2。	The child had a placid disposition.
飞翔	那鸟展翅fei1xiang2.	The bird extended its wings in flight.
奔驰	看到一个乞丐跨进一辆闪亮的ben1chi2轿车我惊愕不已。	I am amazed to see a beggar step into a shiny Mercedes.
关照	有人guan1zhao4我，要我小心别伤害他。	I was told to beware lest I injure him.
财政	大量的cai2zheng4赤字	Large budget deficits.
拳头	他用quan2tou2打我.	He struck me with his fist.
外界	与世隔绝生活的不受wai4jie4干扰的区域	The hermetic confines of an isolated life.
命名	ming4ming2者ming4ming2的人。如在科学分类中	One who assigns names, as in scientific classification.
视力	他的shi4li4在衰退。	His sight is going.
精华	从这种药草提炼出来的jing1hua2对治疗高血压有效。	The essence drawn out from this medicinal herb is good for high blood pressure.
泡沫	我不喜欢pao4mo4太多的啤酒.	I don't like beer with too much froth.
宣誓	他xuan1shi4对国王效忠。	He took an oath of fealty to the king.
反馈	计算机的fan3kui4能使我们更新程序.	The feedback from the computer enables us to update the program.
同胞	这个政治家在他的tong2bao1中不得人心。	The politician was unpopular with his countryman.
本能	鸟有飞的ben3neng2.	Birds have the instinct to learn to fly.
出路	爱情自会寻chu1lu4。	Love will find out the way.
挑剔	她是个爱tiao1ti5的老太婆.	She's an awful old bag.
封闭	这段路已经feng1bi4.	This section of the road is closed.
注重	我们应该更zhu4zhong4心理健康。	We should pay more attention to our mental health.
埋怨	他总是在man2yuan4。	He is forever complaining.
孔	水从kong3中射出.	Water spewed out of the hole.
蚂蚁	地上满是ma3yi3.	The ground was crawling with ants.
违背	不要做wei2bei4他心意的事。	Don't do anything that should go against his will.
音响	你的立体声yin1xiang3在哪儿？	Where's your stereo?
寂静	时钟鸣响声打破了ji4jing4.	The silence was succeeded by the striking of a clock.
回避	我们大家不要hui2bi4棘手的问题。	Let's not skirt round the awkward questions.
渣	甘蔗zha1在汁液被榨完以后剩下的甘蔗废料	The refuse of sugar cane after extraction of the juice.
贿赂	他绝不像是会接受hui4lu4的人。	He is the last man to accept a bribe.
识别	无法shi2bie2颜色的人是色盲。	People who cannot distinguish between colors are said to be color-blind.
万分	我们焦急wan4fen1地等候医生做出诊断。	We waited in great suspense for the doctor's diagnosis.
崭新	zhan3xin1的处于新鲜和未使用状态的；全新的	Being in a fresh and unused condition; completely new.
不惜	他bu4xi1一切代价帮助我们。	He spared no expense in helping us.
股份	她有公司的40%gu3fen4.	She has a 40% holding (ie share) in the company.
体系	这两种ti3xi4只是在表面上有某种相似之处, 其实根本不同.	There is only a formal resemblance between the two systems; they are in fact radically different.
夕阳	xi1yang2无限好，只是近黄昏。	The setting sun had boundless beauty, Just because the yellow dusk is so near.
频繁	近来我们一些大城市中罪案pin2fan2。	There has recently been an epidemic of crime in our major cities.
行政	这份工作主要是xing2zheng4性的。	This job is mainly administrative.
以便	她简化了指令yi3bian4于儿童理解。	She simplified the instructions so that the children could understand them.
起伏	水声上述汹涌或qi3fu2的声音	The sound of this rush or surge.
智力	他的zhi4li4相当有限。	His intelligence is rather limited.
防御	该国的fang2yu4能力薄弱.	The country's defences are weak.
口气	他流露出傲慢的kou3qi4。	He had an arrogant tone of voice.
阵地	他的头一阵zhen4di4痛。	His head throbbed with pain.
协调	那些年国际事态不很xie2tiao2。	There was not much harmony in international affairs during those years.
帐篷	山脚下有几排zhang4peng5。	There are rows of tents at the foot of the mountain.
进化	原生的出现于某一发展或jin4hua4早期阶段的或具有其特征的	Occurring in or characteristic of an early stage of development or evolution.
隆重	我们的宴会非常long2zhong4.	We dined in grand style.
操纵	这辆汽车cao1zong4灵敏.	The car responds well to the controls.
签署	他们qian1shu3了协议与附件。	They signed the agreement and the documents appended thereto.
犹如	爱邻居you2ru2爱自己。	Love your neighbors as yourself.
知觉	感知zhi1jue2的效果或产物	The effect or product of perceiving.
巡逻	军队按时沿边界xun2luo2.	The army regularly patrol (along) the border.
以免	把那刀子放下，yi3mian3伤人！	Put down that knife before you hurt somebody!
权威	她是语音学quan2wei1.	She's an authority on phonetics.
扩散	感染力蔓延kuo4san4的倾向，如学说、影响或情绪等	The tendency to spread, as of a doctrine, influence, or emotional state.
当选	他以全票dang1xuan3.	He was elected by a unanimous vote.
挪	稍微向上nuo2一下.	Move up a bit.
包袱	他希望去掉这个bao1fu5。	He hoped to get rid of the burden.
苍白	她面色cang1bai2.	She has a pale complexion.
便利	合作社（组织）由使用其bian4li4设施或服务项目的人共同拥有或管理的企业或组织	An enterprise or organization that is owned or managed jointly by those who use its facilities or services.
得罪	我决不会故意de2zui4他.	I would never wittingly offend him.
冷酷	她是个很好的妇人，leng3ku4不是她的本性。	She's a very good woman; unkindness is foreign to her nature.
往常	就跟wang3chang2一样。	Just the same as always.
壮观	国王加冕，典礼极为zhuang4guan1。	The king was crowned with great pomp.
边境	恐怖分子越过bian1jing4逃走了.	The terrorists escaped across/over the border.
注视	他怒目zhu4shi4著她.	He fixed her with an angry stare.
学位	在毕业典礼上，xue2wei4被正式颁发。	At commencement, academic degrees are officially given.
反感	我对耽搁时间很fan3gan3.	I hate delays/to be delayed/being delayed.
交叉	jiao1cha1着双腿	Cross one's legs.
砖	卡车运回了许多zhuan1。	The truck had carried back many bricks.
歧视	qi2shi4黑人仍是普遍现象.	Discrimination against Blacks is still common.
正当	你的意见必须通过zheng4dang1途径投诉.	Your complaint must be made through the proper channels.
沐浴	他想起了家乡，想起那mu4yu4在阳光下的静静的田野和村庄。	He thought of home, of drowsy fields and villages bathed by the sun.
镇定	他心乱如麻难以zhen4ding4下来.	His mind was in such a whirl that he could hardly compose his thoughts.
激发	被ji1fa1促动的状态	The state of being motivated.
通用	英语现在tong1yong4于全世界。	English is spoken all over the world today.
古董	收集gu3dong3突然盛行起来.	Suddenly, collecting antiques is all the fashion.
陈述	他的chen2shu4促使他们去调查。	His representation influenced them to investigate.
嫂子	好长时间，我妈妈和我sao3zi5一直争论这样小的细节问题。	My mother and my sister-in-law have been arguing about such minor details for a long time.
着手	我要zhuo2shou3做功课。	I will go now at my lesson.
照样	起初，我们没有现成的技术资料，但也设法zhao4yang4干下去了。	At first, no ready technical data were available, but we managed to go without.
诈骗	新的法规旨在杜绝zha4pian4行为。	The new regulations are deliberately calculated to make cheating impossible.
推测	tui1ce4结果是竞选可能会失败。	The presumable result is an election defeat.
引用	他经常yin3yong4《圣经》中的章节.	He's always quoting verses from the Bible.
玩弄	他只是在wan2nong4她的感情。	He's just trifling with her affections.
采购	她负责cai3gou4电视系列片所用的道具.	She was responsible for buying the properties for the television series.
为难	你使我非常wei2nan2。	You place me in a very difficult position.
严厉	他受到上司的yan2li4斥责。	He received a stern rebuke from his superior.
罢工	ba4gong1者游行通过市中心.	The strikers paraded through the city centre.
缘故	她出于情感的yuan2gu4做了此事。	She did it for sentimental reasons.
分泌	狗见到骨头就大量fen1mi4唾液.	A dog salivates when it sees a bone.
拘留	他被ju1liu2了。	He is under arrest.
麻醉	你丈夫ma2zui4後还没有苏醒.	Your husband hasn't yet come round after the anaesthetic.
舱	小cang1室，厨房船上的小cang1室或厨房	A small cabin or the cook's galley on a ship.
粗鲁	他的cu1lu3让我生气。	His rudeness made me really angry.
实行	新法令明日起shi2xing2.	The new law takes effect from tomorrow.
呼唤	我在想像中彷佛听到她在hu1huan4我.	In my imagination, I thought I heard her calling me.
干涉	军事gan1she4极不相宜.	Military intervention is highly undesirable.
人工	这种橙汁饮品不含ren2gong1调味料.	This orange drink contains no artificial flavourings.
风度	他没有feng1du4。	He has no style.
争议	他的诚实是无可zheng1yi4的。	His honesty is beyond dispute.
迟钝	她不可能如此chi2dun4.	She cannot possibly be so obtuse.
兑现	这张支票凭身分证件dui4xian4.	The cheque will be cashed on proof of identity.
风趣	他的谈话有feng1qu4。	His conversation is spiced with humor.
传达	我把这消息chuan2da2给他了。	I conveyed the information to him.
内在	这样的经验才是生活的nei4zai4本质。	Such experiences are the very staff of life.
液体	该ye4ti3的体积为5升.	The liquid was 5 litres in volume.
层次	ceng2ci4字节、元素、渠道或一行信息	A bit, an element, a channel, or a row of information.
羞耻	她穿着睡衣上班却不觉xiu1chi3。	She's quite shameless about wearing pajamas at work.
占领	军队zhan4ling3了敌国首都.	The army occupied the enemy's capital.
修养	他没多少文化xiu1yang3。	He is a man of little culture.
衷心	他们zhong1xin1欢迎他。	They gave him a hearty welcome.
祖父	在我zu3fu4看来，我爸爸仍然是个小孩。	It seems to my grandfather that my father is still a child.
书记	这时她注意到shu1ji5走了进来。	At this moment she noticed the secretary coming in.
报酬	他那份工作bao4chou5甚微.	He gets paid peanuts for doing that job.
特定	各工种配备te4ding4的工具。	There is a specific tool for each job.
冲击	波浪chong1ji1着岩石。	The waves are lashing against the rocks.
恐吓	＂老板威胁说要解雇所有同情罢工的员工，但是这不过是kong3he4而已。＂	The boss threatened to dismiss all the employees who had expressed their sympathy for the strike, but it's all bluff.""
自主	她的婚姻不能zi4zhu3.	She is not free to follow her own inclination in the matter ofmarriage.
晴朗	今天天气qing2lang3。	It is sunny today.
收益	他在干一个有shou1yi4的副业－－－－向游客出售明信片。	He runs a profitable sideline selling postcard to tourist.
清澈	溪流十分qing1che4。	The stream is very limpid.
捣乱	他存心dao3luan4.	He means (to cause) trouble.
回收	藉新技术即能从废弃物中hui2shou1可用之物。	New techniques make it possible to recover usable things from waste.
峡谷	xia2gu3展现在我们的脚下.	The valley lay at our feet.
上级	对shang4ji2负责的；应负责任的	Responsible to higher authority; accountable.
勤劳	中国人民是一个qin2lao2的民族。	The Chinese are industrious people.
出息	由于这位母亲为儿子照顾得无微不至，把他弄得没什么chu1xi5了。	The mother took so much care of her son, that she has make him be good for nothing.
合成	氢与氧化he2cheng2水.	Hydrogen and oxygen combine/Hydrogen combines with oxygen to form water.
目睹	在这一政治危机时期我是mu4du3一切的局外人。	I was on the sidelines during the political crisis.
不堪	他的衣服破烂bu4kan1了。	His clothes were torn to rags.
泼	谁把牛奶po1出来了?	Who has spilt/spilled the milk?
撤销	该案因证据不足而che4xiao1.	The case was dismissed because of insufficient evidence.
理所当然	我认为他会成功是li3 suo3 dang1ran2的。	I take it for granted that he will succeed.
发育	那支熊已完全fa1yu4成熟.	The bear was a fully grown adult.
不禁	我bu4jin1也有同样的想法。	I can not help think the same.
疑惑	他被yi2huo4所困扰。	He is encompassed with doubts.
竖	他吓得毛发倒shu4。	He got a vertical breeze up.
杰出	他是一个jie2chu1的中国公民。	He is an eminent citizen of China.
揉	她正在rou2面。	She is kneading dough.
疲倦	他因艰苦的工作而pi2juan4。	He is weary with hard work.
竞赛	他只是因为受人激将才参加jing4sai4.	He only entered the competition for a dare.
首要	和平是大会的shou3yao4议题。	Peace was the dominant theme of the conference.
罕见	这些han3jian4的邮票非常珍贵。	These stamps have great value because of their rarity.
模范	她是全班的mo2fan4.	She was an example to the rest of the class.
岩石	船被yan2shi2撞坏了。	The ship was battered against the rocks.
伺候	他像是想要人尽心尽力ci4hou5他.	He seemed to expect to be waited on hand and foot.
辜负	不要gu1fu4人民对你的信任。	Don't betray the people's trust in you.
惦记	我一直dian4ji4着这件事。	I've kept on thinking about that all the time.
克制	他设法ke4zhi4住了阵阵愤怒。	He managed to subdue his mounting anger.
品种	请问我该先买哪个pin3zhong3。	Please advise me which item I should buy.
纠正	你的发音毛病是可以jiu1zheng4的。	Your faults of pronunciation can be remedied.
瘫痪	他身体有一部分tan1huan4了.	He is partially paralysed.
解散	议会jie3san4了。	The parliament was dissolved.
搂	她把那孩子lou3在怀里.	She pressed the child to her.
局势	ju2shi4真惊人哪!	What a shocking state of affairs!
成天	这个地方的电视cheng2tian1开著.	The TV stays on all day at this place.
初步	你的chu1bu4措施是什么？	What are your preparatory measures?
当面	你不应该dang1mian4这么严厉地批评他。	You should not criticize him so harshly in his face.
丛	甘蔗cong2茂密的甘蔗林	A dense thicket of cane.
意图	我不知道他的yi4tu2是什么。	I do not know what his intention is.
终止	这个项目已zhong1zhi3了。	This project has been closed up.
光彩	我喜欢她眼睛的guang1cai3。	I like the sparkles in her eyes.
恶化	皮疹搔後会e4hua4.	Scratching exacerbates a skin rash.
港口	这个gang3kou3是天然港。	This harbor is a natural harbor.
耀眼	在兰色天空的yao4yan3背景衬托下看去，山峰顶是灰色的。	The summit of the mountain is grey seen against a brilliant background of blue sky.
圈套	他落入敌人设的quan1tao4。	He fell into a snare laid by his enemy.
免得	我用功，mian3de2考不及格。	I study hard, so that I may not fail in the examinations.
盗窃	法律禁止dao4qie4。	The law forbids stealing.
埋葬	承办殡葬者准备mai2zang4尸体。	The corpse was laid out by the undertaker.
记性	我的ji4xing5很差。	I have a very poor memory.
渠道	湍急的水道这样一股水流的qu2dao4	The channel of such a current.
掐	她qia1了他（胳膊）一下, 把他叫醒.	She gave him a pinch (on the arm) to wake him up.
近来	jin4lai2各方面都有所改进。	There's been an overall improvement recently.
调料	阿都波一种由海菜及肉或鱼做成的菲律宾菜肴，用咖喱、酱油和香料作tiao2liao4，佐以米饭	A Philippine dish of marinated vegetables and meat or fish seasoned with garlic, soy sauce, and spices and served with rice.
步伐	敏捷的bu4fa2	A merry pace.
劈	她一斧头把木块pi1成两半。	She chopped the block of wood in two with a single blow.
元首	政府为到访的yuan2shou3派出了武装卫队.	The government provided an armed escort for the visiting head of State.
驱逐	他被qu1zhu2使我们很震惊。	His banishment shocked us all.
视野	该物体进入了我的shi4ye3.	It came within my range of vision.
阵容	球队zhen4rong2中将没有琼斯.	Jones will be missing from the team line-up.
资助	这机构得到联合国的zi1zhu4。	The organization is backed by the UN.
保管	我在比赛前把手表交妻子bao3guan3.	Before the game I gave my watch to my wife for safe keeping.
仪器	罗盘是航行yi2qi4。	The compass is an instrument of navigation.
特长	他因得宠而获此地位, 并非有何te4chang2或本事.	He obtained his position more by favour than by merit or ability.
开展	着手与你方kai1zhan3业务。	Commence business with you.
名誉	他的ming2yu4完整无损。	His honor remained intact.
牵扯	把旁观者qian1che3进他与警察的争执	Involved the bystanders in his dispute with the police.
和解	双方能互让he2jie3吗?	Can the two sides reach a compromise?
动脉	一条靠近骨盆的dong4mai4	A pelvic artery.
依据	我的yi1ju4只是谣传而已.	I have only reports to go on.
分辨	fen1bian4是非并不总是很容易的。	It is not always easy to know right from wrong.
后代	杂交斑马斑马与马杂交的hou4dai4	The hybrid offspring of a zebra and a horse.
口腔	我的kou3qiang1出现了溃疡。	My mouth has an ulcer.
蔓延	常春藤沿着墙壁man4yan2。	Ivy crept along the walls.
报答	我怎麽能bao4da2你的恩惠呢?	How can I ever repay (you for) your kindness?
精确	你对那段距离的判断十分jing1que4.	You judged the distance to a nicety.
瀑布	pu4bu4不断地冲蚀着岩石。	The waterfall is wearing away the rocks.
方言	他讲话中时而不自觉地冒出地方fang1yan2。	Every now and then he would lapse into the local dialect.
捕捉	警方正在忙着bu3zhuo1逃犯。	The police are on the run to catch the murderer.
浸泡	把那棵植物在水里jin4pao4几分钟。	Please immerse the plant in water for a few minutes.
贫困	下岗职工陷入pin2kun4。	Laid-off workers fall into penury.
黄昏	huang2hun1时分她常常坐在花园里。	She often sits in the garden at twilight.
狼狈	我的生活真是lang2bei4!	My life's (in) a real mess!
丰收	去年玉米feng1shou1。	There was an abundance of corn last year.
塑造	他用粘土su4zao4了一只兔子。	He moulded a rabbit out of clay.
领悟	那孩子渐渐ling3wu4到音乐的乐趣。	The child has a gradual awakening to the joy of music.
当代	他是dang1dai4最有才智的人.	He is one of the greatest minds of the age.
广阔	亚洲的平原非常guang3kuo4。	The Asiatic plains are very wide.
平行	该公路与铁路ping2xing2.	The road runs parallel with the railway.
若干	这出戏里有ruo4gan1典型的斯托帕特式的场景.	The play contains a number of typical Stoppard set pieces.
吹牛	他喜欢chui1niu2。	He likes to throw the bull.
答复	我正在等待他们的da2fu4。	I am awaiting their reply.
迷信	由於无知和mi2xin4, 他们无法得到现代医学的好处.	Ignorance and superstition prevent them from benefiting from modern medicine.
原理	这两台机器的工作yuan2li3是相同的.	These machines both work on the same principle.
持久	这个条约将成为chi2jiu3和平的开端。	The treaty will be the threshold of lasting peace.
威力	需要加强法制的wei1li4.	The law needs toughening (up).
期限	这项专利qi1xian4为3年。	The patent runs out in three years time.
垫	床头上有一个长枕dian4。	There is a bolster across the head of the bed.
屈服	我们绝不会向侵略者qu1fu2。	We will never yield to invaders.
辛勤	他靠xin1qin2劳动而获得成功.	His success was achieved by hard work.
题材	节目涉及从流行音乐到京剧这样形形色色的ti2cai2。	The program deals with subjects as diverse as pop music and Beijing Opera.
英勇	那个英雄ying1yong3绝伦。	The hero was dauntless.
定期	内阁ding4qi1开会.	The Cabinet meets regularly.
慰问	请接受我的wei4wen4。	Please accept my condolences.
标题	这个编在什麽biao1ti2之下?	What heading does this come under?
丰满	你的脸颊变得多麽feng1man3！	How your cheeks have plumped up!
立体	现在不是奢侈花钱买新li4ti3音响的时候.	This is no time to lash out on a new stereo.
连锁	这帮匪徒通过他们的 lian2suo3饭店洗赃款.	The gang laundered the stolen money through their chain of restaurants.
打猎	威廉姆斯先生热衷于da3lie4。	Mr. Williams goes in for hunting.
花瓣	hua1ban4在阳光下张开了.	The petals of the flowers expanded in the sunshine.
专题	这一杂志下周要发表一篇关於教育的zhuan1ti2文章.	This magazine will be running a special feature on education next week.
发炎	眼炎眼睛的fa1yan2	Inflammation of the eye.
分解	棱镜可以fen1jie3光线。	A prism decomposes light.
揭露	他那不光彩历史的jie1lu4导致了他的辞职。	The revelation of his scandalous past led to his resignation.
强制	qiang2zhi4的权力或能力	Power or ability to coerce.
畅通	保持交通chang4tong1无阻.	Keep the traffic flowing.
吩咐	按照fen1fu5你的去做.	Do as you are bidden.
水泥	他用shui3ni2砌砖.	He cemented the bricks into place.
雕塑	设计模型diao1su4或建筑物等拟作作品的通常很小的模型	A usually small model of an intended work, such as a sculpture or piece of architecture.
顽固	那个wan2gu4老头就是不肯进医院.	The obstinate old man refused to go to hospital.
无赖	两帮少年wu2lai4之间的持续暴动力行为，使得那个宅区的大部分成了禁区。	The continuing violence between rival gangs of youths has made a large part of the housing estate a no-go area.
腹泻	排泄的，排除的引起fu4xie4，尤指肠泻的；净肠的	Causing evacuation, especially of the bowels; purgative.
衬托	那座山在东方天空的chen4tuo1下显得轮廓分明.	The mountain was sharply defined against the eastern sky.
凡是	fan2shi4定长远的计画都难免出偏差.	Long-term planning is always rather a hit-or-miss affair.
钙	我有点缺gai4。	I have a slight calcium deficiency.
筛选	我们得把申请书仔细shai1xuan3一下以甄别优劣.	We have to sift through the application forms very carefully to separate the wheat from the chaff.
虚假	提供xu1jia3资料可能导致合同失效.	The making of false statements could result in the invalidation of the contract.
应酬	她讨厌在宴会上为ying4chou5而和人交谈。	She detests having to talk to people at parties.
昂贵	建筑材料很ang2gui4。	Building materials are expensive.
腐烂	半数的李子fu3lan4了.	Half of the plums are rotten.
公告	gong1gao4某人为小偷	Post a man as a thief.
住宅	学校、教堂、zhu4zhai2、厂房均为建筑物.	Schools, churches, houses and factories are all buildings.
货币	英国的huo4bi4单位是镑.	The monetary unit of Great Britain is the pound.
弥漫	空气中烟雾mi2man4。	The air was thick with smoke.
受罪	摆在他面前的是继续吃苦shou4zui4。	Ahead of him lay the prospect of continuing hardship.
作风	那种做法是她的特色；那就是她的zuo4feng1。	It is characteristic of her to act that way.
恼火	会员们对你的建议甚为nao3huo3.	The membership is/are very annoyed at your suggestion.
况且	kuang4qie3，不管我是不是这样""，他接着说，""这和他认为我忘恩负义没有多大关系。""	Besides, whether I am or not, "" he added, ""that has little or nothing to do with his thinking me ungrateful.""
寄托	我已经把我所有的希望都ji4tuo1在你身上了。	I have staked all my hopes on you.
是非	他不懂shi4fei1.	He doesn't know the difference between right and wrong.
宪法	xian4fa3授予总统宣战权。	The constitution vests the president with the power to declare war.
淹没	洪水yan1mo4了河边的田地.	Flood water covered the fields by the river.
烹饪	她peng1ren4时用盐很少。	She is economical in her use of salt when cooking.
雷达	他们在lei2da2屏上看到了那艘游艇.	They picked up the yacht on their radar screen.
比喻	耶稣以bi3yu4教导。	Jesus taught in parables.
脉搏	她的mai4bo2加快了.	Her pulse quickened.
解剖	你还记得我们jie3pou1青蛙的那堂课吗？	Do you remember the lesson on the anatomy of a frog?
分明	那座山在东方天空的衬托下显得轮廓fen1ming2.	The mountain was sharply defined against the eastern sky.
风味	这道菜很有意大利餐的feng1wei4。	The dose has a distinctive italian flavor.
刹那	cha4na4间我想到汽车要碰撞.	For a fleeting moment I thought the car was going to crash.
出身	她chu1shen1高贵.	She was a lady by birth.
凑合	我记得感到上帝或某人把我们cou4he5在一起。	I remember feeling that God, or someone, had brought us together.
中断	两国间贸易因战争而zhong1duan4.	Trade between the two countries was interrupted by the war.
镇静	这些药丸有zhen4jing4催眠作用.	These pills will relax you and make you sleep.
喇叭	la3ba5吹响了.	The trumpet sounded.
决策	jue2ce4的重任全落在她的肩上了。	The full weight of decision-making falls on her.
平庸	他外表ping2yong1。	He has a bland appearance.
陶醉	她tao2zui4于自己的嗓音。	She is enamored of the sound of her own voice.
祖先	家谱zu3xian1录；家族树	A list of ancestors; a family tree.
瞪	他们全都惊讶地deng4着眼。	They all stared with astonishment.
胸怀	她是一个xiong1huai2非常广阔的女子。	She is a woman of great breadth of mind.
制止	他们要zhi4zhi3富人掠夺穷人。	They would stop the rich from robbing the poor.
繁忙	远洋航路总是很fan2mang2.	The ocean lanes are always busy.
增添	旗子给街道zeng1tian1了色彩。	The flags lent colour to the streets.
证书	执照，奖状赋予某种荣誉和特权的zheng4shu1	A certificate conferring a privilege or honor.
涂抹	油画布上满是tu2mo3的颜料.	Blobs of paint were dotted around the canvas.
恰当	那不是很qia4dang4的话。	That was not a very happy remark.
报销	看来这汽车算是bao4xiao1了。	The car seems to have given up the ghost.
战役	滑铁卢zhan4yi4的遗址在比利时。	The site of the battle of Waterloo is in Belgium.
趣味	我们在海滩上野餐，qu4wei4无穷。	We had a lot of fun at the picnic on the beach.
蹦	箱子突然打开，从里面beng4出只小狗。	Suddenly the box split open and a puppy jumped out.
毅力	靠yi4li4这跛童学会了游泳。	By perseverance the lame boy learned to swim.
全力以赴	他振作精神准备quan2li4yi3fu4。	He braced every nerve for a supreme effort.
适宜	这些电影只shi4yi2成人观看。	These films are suitable for adults only.
起初	该病qi3chu1是器质性疾患.	The illness is organic in origin.
过失	我原谅了他的guo4shi1。	I looked over his faults.
压迫	女人经常受男人ya1po4.	Women are often oppressed by men.
共和国	gong4he2guo2的未来性质尚在未定之天。	The future character of the Republic is in the air.
曲折	在前进的道路上，他们是一定会碰到qu1zhe2的。	On their way forward, they are bound to run into twists and turns.
一度	他yi1du4住在赞比亚.	He once lived in Zambia.
油腻	多吃you2ni4食物对身体有害。	A surfeit of rich food is bad for you.
处置	所有权构成控制或chu3zhi4财产或所有权的合法权力的所有要素同时符合的条件	The coincidence of all the elements that constitute the fullest legal right to control and dispose of property or a claim.
小心翼翼	他总是xiao3xin1-yi4yi4地按规章办事。	He's always careful to do things by the book.
盛开	丁香sheng4kai1着。	The clove is in full bloom.
手艺	他们很钦佩她的shou3yi4.	They admired her workmanship.
书籍	地质学shu1ji2或论著	A book on geology.
手势	肢体语言一个从容的、有力的动作或shou3shi4	A deliberate, vigorous motion or gesture.
担保	我所能dan1bao3的仅此而已。	That's all I can engage for.
走私	他们zou3si1瑞士表进中国。	They smuggled Swiss watches into China.
生育	由于这对已婚夫妇无法sheng1yu4，他们领养了一个私生子。	As the married couple can't have children, they have adopted a child born out of wedlock.
毫米	这边缘必须切割到0.02hao2mi3的精密度。	The edge must be machined to 0.02 millimeters.
专利	那是我的zhuan1li4发明.	It's my patent.
损坏	吃糖太多就要sun3huai4牙齿.	Too much sugar will rot your teeth away.
消毒	发现斑疹伤寒以後, 医院的病房进行了烟熏xiao1du2.	The hospital wards were fumigated after the outbreak of typhus.
较量	我已经准备好与你jiao4liang4力气。	I'm ready to match my strength against yours.
棉花	这个地区过去大量种mian2hua5。	This district grew cotton on a large scale.
畏惧	wei4ju4，焦虑的一瞥	A fearful, nervous glance.
准则	这部影片违反了审美的一切zhun3ze2.	This film offends against all the canons of good taste.
猛烈	骑兵meng3lie4向前线冲击。	The cavalry charged to the front.
快活	他的kuai4huo5是虚假的。	His cheerfulness is false.
狠心	hen3xin1的女巫对孤苦无助的小女孩施发妖术。	The heartless witch cast a spell on the poor little girl.
茫然	大家对她的解释mang2ran2不解.	Her explanations were met with blank incomprehension.
局部	乌龙（茶）一种在干燥前ju2bu4发酵的中国红茶	A dark Chinese tea that has been partially fermented before drying.
向来	我父母xiang4lai2不赞成深夜外出.	My parents always frown on late nights out.
新陈代谢	抗维生素一种破坏或抑制维生素的xin1-chen2 dai4xie4功能的物质	A substance that destroys or inhibits the metabolic action of a vitamin.
澄清	整个问题都需要cheng2qing1.	The whole issue needs clarification.
信誉	公司绝不愿将自己的xin4yu4孤注一掷。	The company would do anything but risk their prestige at stake.
野心	她的ye3xin1没有限度。	Her ambition knows no limit.
敷衍	我并非真的想同我儿子打一场艰苦的网球赛，因此就fu1yan3了一下，让他赢了前两局。	I didn't really want to play a hard game of tennis with my son, so I went through the motions and let him win the first two sets.
缺席	今天有多少学生que1xi2？	How many students are absent today?
流露	他的言谈中liu2lu4著自满的口气.	There was a note of self-satisfaction in his speech.
排斥	磁北极与磁北极互相pai2chi4.	North magnetic poles repel (each other).
推理	推断由实际情况或证据而作出tui1li3的行为	The act of reasoning from factual knowledge or evidence.
畅销	好书未必chang4xiao1。	A good book does not necessarily sell well.
紧迫	jin3po4的强求立即的行动和关注的；急迫的	Compelling immediate action or attention; pressing.
气势	她单凭个人qi4shi4就镇住了会场。	She dominated the meeting by sheer force of character.
销毁	裁减军备协议难以达成, 症结在於如何证实（如检查武器确已xiao1hui3）.	Verification (eg Checking that weapons have been removed) could be an obstacle to an arms agreement.
示范	请shi4fan4机器的使用方法。	Please demonstrate how the machine works.
一帆风顺	她的生活到目前仍yi1 fan1 feng1 shun4。	Her life has run smoothly up to now.
俗话	这使我想起那句su2hua4，“三思而后行”。	Remind me of the old saying,""look before you leap"".
扰乱	那些人被控rao3luan4治安.	The men were charged with causing an affray.
富裕	有足够的钱的；fu4yu4的	Having plenty of money; prosperous.
遥控	这颗炸弹是yao2kong4引爆的。	The bomb was exploded by remote control.
摩擦	两个棍棒相互mo2ca1能起火.	Friction between two sticks can create a fire.
舒畅	他的双腿很疲乏，但心情shu1chang4。	His legs were weary, but his mind was at ease.
约束	放荡不羁的人行动没有道德yue1shu4的人；放荡的人	One who acts without moral restraint; a dissolute person.
庞大	pang2da4的体积pang2da4的；巨大的	Of enormous size; huge.
条款	该tiao2kuan3内容如下....	The clause reads thus/as follows...
收缩	面团在冷空气中慢慢shou1suo1了.	The dough shrank slowly in the cold air.
股东	敬请您出席gu3dong1会议.	Your presence is requested at the shareholders' meeting.
谴责	我们都qian3ze2工会破坏谈判。	We all accused the union of torpedoing the negotiation.
探望	我们出国前匆匆tan4wang4了她一次.	We paid her a fleeting visit before leaving the country.
平坦	整个地形十分ping2tan3.	The whole landscape looked as flat as a pancake.
审查	他分别shen3cha2每一证据。	He examined each piece of evidence in isolation.
北极	我想bei3ji2地区的人要比这里的少得多。	I guess there are much less people in the Arctic regions than here.
临床	lin2chuang2指导在诊所讲授或指导研讨的人	One who conducts sessions or teaches at a clinic.
慢性	石棉沉着病由长期吸收石棉微粒而引起的man4xing4，日趋严重的肺病	A chronic, progressive lung disease caused by prolonged inhalation of asbestos particles.
真挚	请向你全家转达我zhen1zhi4的问候。	Please give my sincere regards to all the members of your family.
化验	护士抽了我的血样去hua4yan4。	The nurse took a sample of my blood for tests.
支配	你决不要受别人意见的zhi1pei4。	You must not be governed by the opinions of others.
点缀	他用欧芹的嫩枝dian3zhui4在鸡上。	He decorated the chicken with sprigs of parsley.
光辉	她眼睛里闪烁著调皮的guang1hui1.	Her eyes twinkled with mischief.
延伸	沙漠一直yan2shen1到远方。	The desert stretched away into the distance.
和睦	协调，he2mu4作为一致的状态或性质；调和	The state or quality of being in accord; harmony.
坚韧	一种jian1ren4的全天候织物	A tough all-weather fabric.
卓越	周总理是一位zhuo2yue4的政治家。	Premier Zhou is a distinguished politician.
侧面	我从ce4mian4给他拍照。	I photographed him in profile.
加工	不是所有的金属都容易jia1gong1	Not all metals work easily.
算数	你祈求实现愿望时没闭上眼睛, 所以不suan4shu4!	You didn't shut your eyes before you made the wish, so it doesn't count!
吝啬	他虽说又愚蠢又lin4se4，但他有幽默的长处。	He may be stupid and mean, but his one saving grace is his humour.
演习	该舰队正在波罗的海yan3xi2.	The fleet is manoeuvring in the Baltic.
首饰	我喜欢戴银shou3shi4。	I like to wear argentine jewellery.
觉醒	目前，这个国家的人民正在日益jue2xing3。	At present the people in this country are increasingly awakening.
偿还	银行催我们chang2huan2贷款.	The bank is pressing us for repayment of the loan.
相差	虽然富人和穷人住在一起，但是条件xiang1cha4极为悬殊。	Rich and poor live side by side but in conditions of extraordinary disparity.
油漆	you2qi1正在剥落。	The paint was peeling.
测量	我们ce4liang2了温度的变化.	We measured the difference(s) in temperature.
安置	我an1zhi4孩子们去睡觉了.	I've put the children to bed.
无非	好多智慧的冠冕，wu2fei1是一只“成功”的金尿壶，摆着堂皇的架势而已。	Many a crown of wisdom is but the golden chamber-pot of success, worn with pompous dignity.
被动	消极主义消极bei4dong4的性格、态度、品质或行为	Passive character, attitude, quality, or behavior.
遗失	有一货轮的钢材在海上yi2shi1了。	A cargo of steel was lost at sea.
推翻	革命者计划tui1fan1傀儡政府。	The revolutionist planned to overturn this puppet regime.
殴打	他被暴徒ou1da3致死.	He was beaten to death by thugs.
教养	有jiao4yang3的；文雅的；精炼的	Educated; polished; refined.
谅解	她是能liang4jie3的, 她是个大好人.	She'll understand and forgive; she's really quite human.
方位	他们能够用雷达测定快艇的fang1wei4.	They were able to position the yacht by means of radar.
泛滥	侵占，fan4lan4，超过限度	An act of overrunning.
顽强	事实是最wan2qiang2的东西。	Facts are stubborn things.
先前	xian1qian2的时间上先发生的；较早的	Occurring before in time; earlier.
磁带	警方查获了各种书和ci2dai4.	The police seized various books and tapes.
呼吁	他不理会一切求援的hu1yu4。	He turned a deaf ear to all requests for help.
可口	相当快；相当ke3kou3	Quite soon; quite tasty.
比方	这里不过是打一个bi3fang5。	Here we speak only by way of analogy.
把手	用这条毛巾ba3shou5擦乾.	Dry your hands on this towel.
就业	全国jiu4ye4人数按月公布.	The national employment figures are published every month.
轰动	这个消息十分hong1dong4.	The news caused a great sensation.
人为	那位诗ren2wei2她写了许多诗。	The poet has written many poems for her.
性能	新汽车xing4neng2如何?	How is the new car performing?
冤枉	你说他说谎是yuan1wang5了他。	You wronged him by saying that he had lied.
行列	敌人的炮弹在士兵hang2lie4中炸成大洞。	The enemy's shells made great holes in the ranks.
微不足道	一小笔少量，wei1 bu4 zu2 dao4的数目	A small, trifling sum.
国务院	他是guo2wu4yuan4的发言人。	He is the spokesman of the council.
界限	范围；区域被该jie4xian4围合的空间	The space enclosed by such a boundary.
传单	有学生向路人散发chuan2dan1.	There were students dishing out leaflets to passers-by.
敏锐	狗有min3rui4的觉	Dogs have a keen scent.
原先	这所学校yuan2xian1很小.	The school was originally quite small.
编织	我送给她一条bian1zhi1的披肩作圣诞礼物。	I gave her a knitted shawl as a Christmas gift.
储存	膀胱能chu3cun2尿液。	The bladder collects urine.
职务	他因疏忽被解除了zhi2wu4。	He was relieved of his post because of his carelessness.
坠	我们把床单搓成绳子, 援绳下zhui4逃跑了.	We twisted the bed sheets into a rope and escaped by climbing down it.
形态	蝌蚪是青蛙的幼年xing2tai4。	Tadpoles are the infancy form of frogs.
歹徒	当局悬赏缉拿dai3tu2.	The authorities put a price on the outlaw's head.
指标	如果今年做出较大努力，我们有可能达到这个zhi3biao1。	If we put in more efforts this year, we may be able to reach that mark.
斑	需刷牙以去除牙ban1.	It is necessary to remove plaque by brushing one's teeth.
设想	我这样she4xiang3对吗?	Am I correct in supposing so?
考察	他们计划组织一次科学kao3cha2。	They planned to organize a scientific expedition.
辅助	专业人员的助手受过训练fu3zhu4专门人员的非专职人员	A trained worker who is not a member of a given profession but assists a professional.
诸位	女士们、 先生们: 请别堵住通道. 谢谢zhu1wei4大力协助.	Please clear the gangways, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your co-operation.
慎重	他虽然如此年轻，却很shen4zhong4。	Young as he was, he was prudent.
堆积	云层正在dui1ji1。	Clouds are banking up.
虚荣	时髦花样的变迁，是穷人的辛勤对有钱人的xu1rong2征收的税款。	Change in fashion is the tax which the industry of the poor levi on the vanity of the rich.
启示	qi3shi4精神或智力上的启发	Spiritual or intellectual enlightenment.
反驳	她fan3bo2说, ｀一派胡言!＇	`Nonsense!' she retorted.
部署	炮兵bu4shu3在西边.	Artillery was deployed in the west.
内幕	nei4mu4消息；内部笑话	Inside information; an inside joke.
一贯	她yi1guan4奉行马克思主义路线。	She always takes a Marxist line.
闪烁	灯塔在远处发出shan3shuo4的光.	A lighthouse was flashing in the distance.
勇于	他的自剖是yong3yu2面对现实的。	His self-analysis was unblinking.
相应	胸脯其它哺乳动物的xiang1ying4器官	A corresponding organ in other mammals.
贩卖	宣告fan4mai4军火是非法的	Outlawed the sale of firearms.
体面	他梦想着过ti3mian5的生活。	He dreamed of living in decent conditions.
酝酿	此事尚在yun4niang4中。	It still lies in the womb of time.
笼罩	浓雾long3zhao4着山顶。	The thick mist clouded the mountain-top.
思索	性格外向的人喜欢高谈阔论, 而不愿si1suo3人生的意义.	Extroverts prefer lively conversation to brooding on the meaning of life.
寺庙	他跳上马, 朝si4miao4方向飞奔而去。	He jumped onto the horse and galloped in the direction of the temple.
书法	他以他的shu1fa3为自豪。	He prides himself on his handwriting.
抢救	qiang3jiu4人员冲向飞机坠毁的现场。	Rescue workers rushed to the site of the plane crash.
灭亡	只要有更短而又直接通往mie4wang2的大道，这世上就可省却不少悲哀与忧愁的吧。	If there only some shorter and more direct route to the devil, it would save an awful lot of sorrow and anxiety in this world.
可行	很清楚，电动汽车在工艺技术上是ke3xing2的。	It's quite clear that the electric car is technically feasible.
让步	政府并未向舆论rang4bu4.	The government has not yielded to public opinion.
复兴	我们国家的fu4xing1要靠我们年轻的一代。	The revival of our country depends on our young generation.
公道	有道理，我认为那是非常gong1dao4的价格。	Fair enough, I think that's a very reasonable price.
机智	她聪明ji1zhi4, 使人难以招架.	She uses wit with deadly effect.
边界	bian1jie4线确立或标志bian1jie4的线	A line that establishes or marks a border.
摧残	她的一生被疾病所cui1can2。	Her life was blighted by ill health.
高明	gao1ming2的律师也许能找到回避那一条款的办法.	A clever lawyer might find ways of getting round that clause.
分歧	他们的意见fen1qi2很大。	They differ widely in their opinions.
冒充	他mao4chong1警卫逃走了.	He escaped by passing himself off as a guard.
请教	我建议你qing3jiao4律师。	I suggest you consult a lawyer.
冷却	蒸汽leng3que4时凝结成水。	Steam condenses into water when cooling down.
规范	他婚后过着合乎道德gui1fan4的生活。	He lived a moral life after marriage.
鞠躬	我们都向女王ju1gong1致敬.	We all bowed to the Queen.
补救	情况不妙，请电告bu3jiu4方案。	Matter turning worse advise what remedy.
通缉	这张照片与tong1ji1人相符.	The photograph answers to the description of the wanted man.
旗帜	qi2zhi4迎风飘扬。	A flag ruffled in the breeze.
爽快	我洗过淋浴后觉得shuang3kuai5了一些。	I took a shower and it braced me up a bit.
雕刻	这座像是（用石头）diao1ke4的.	The statue was carved (out of stone).
抵制	那辆货车遭罢工者di3zhi4而无法卸货.	The lorry had been blacked by strikers and could not be unloaded.
资深	一位漂亮花园的zi1shen1培育者；进行有价值的公司联络的人	An inveterate cultivator of beautiful gardens; a cultivator of valuable corporate contacts.
设立	他们为赛马she4li4了2000畿尼的奖金。	They had set a prize of 2000 gns for the horserace.
淋	雨伞可以保护你不致雨lin2。	An umbrella will protect you from the rain.
展望	我站着zhan3wang4湖面。	I stand looking over the lake.
遵循	平民，百姓zun1xun2平民生活的人	A person following the pursuits of civil life.
原告	yuan2gao4起诉了被告。	The accuser brought an accusation against the accused.
个体	突变体由突变而产生的一种新ge4ti3、新有机体或者新种	An individual, an organism, or a new genetic character arising or resulting from mutation.
航行	我们是朝正北方向hang2xing2。	Our course was straight to the north.
敬礼	见面礼节礼节性拥抱，如问候或jing4li3	A ceremonial embrace, as of greeting or salutation.
挑衅	激怒tiao3xin4或煽动的行动	The act of provoking or inciting.
前景	qian2jing3好得不能再好了.	The prospects couldn't be rosier.
检讨	政府正在重新jian3tao3形势。	The government is reviewing the situation.
区分	你做的qu1fen1非常精细.	You are making very fine distinctions.
宫殿	gong1dian4的门由金箔做成。	The doors of the palace were made of beaten gold.
堵塞	城里的交通天天du3se4。	Traffic jams in the town happen everyday.
竭尽全力	她jie2jin4-quan2li4使父母高兴。	She does her utmost to please her parents.
蒸发	水在阳光下不久就zheng1fa1了。	The water soon evaporated in the sunshine.
文物	博物馆展出了许多出土wen2wu4。	Many unearthed cultural relics were exhibited at the museum.
拐杖	我建议刚开始爬山的人使用guai3zhang4。	When climbing a mountain I advise beginners to use a staff.
捍卫	新闻界是han4wei4我们自由的卫兵。	The press is a sentinel of our liberty.
反射	月球是藉fan3she4阳光而发光的.	The moon shines with reflected light.
粉碎	花瓶已经fen3sui4了.	The vase shattered into a thousand pieces.
董事长	我们dong3shi4zhang3于昨晚八时去世。	Our director passed away at eight o'clock last night.
事态	shi4tai4事情的状况；情形	A state of affairs; situation.
反常	这孩子是否有点fan3chang2？	Is the child abnormal in any way?
空洞	他就人权问题提出的抗议听来很kong1dong4。	His protests on human rights sound hollow.
凝视	她坐着ning2shi4着窗外。	She sat gazing out of the window.
废墟	塔矗立在fei4xu1中。	The tower stood amidst the ruins.
隐蔽	机关枪从yin3bi4的阵地开始射击。	Machine guns opened up from a concealed position.
告诫	我gao4jie4自己要冷静下来。	I told myself to calm down.
裁缝	cai2feng5把这套衣服做坏了。	The tailor has butchered this suit.
融洽	他们生活在一起十分rong2qia4.	They live in perfect accord with each other.
俘虏	敌国间交换了fu2lu3.	The enemy countries exchanged prisoners.
立方	三的li4fang1是二十七。	Three cubed is twenty-seven.
备份	它的用处是bei4fen4大量的数据或增加存储容量。硬盘的存储容量从几百兆字节不等。	Hard disks provide tremendous storage capacities ranging from hundreds of megabytes to several gigabytes.
储备	我们需要再次补充煤的chu3bei4。	We need to replenish our stocks of coal.
悔恨	他饱受hui3hen4的煎熬.	He suffered agonies of remorse.
辩解	他试图为丢失钱而进行bian4jie3。	He tried to explain away the missing money.
树立	他为我们shu4li4了一个好榜样。	He set up a fine example to all of us.
支柱	那些zhi1zhu4上得很牢固。	The struts are firmly braced.
纠纷	他有许多家庭jiu1fen1。	He has had many domestic troubles.
借助	他的一条腿跛了，走路jie4zhu4于拐杖。	He is lame in one leg and walks with the help of a crutch.
惯例	偏离的，背离guan4li4的	Departing from convention.
务必	wu4bi4抽空来坐坐.	Do come round and see us some time.
任命	他被ren4ming4为科长。	He is nominated section chief.
探讨	他们用很多时间tan4tao3生命的奥秘.	They spend their time philosophizingabout the mysteries of life.
垄断	但大long3duan4资本家不愿意要和平。	But the big monopoly capitalists do not want peace.
舆论	他对yu2lun4毫不关心。	He cares not a whit for public opinion.
轮廓	角形角形，角的lun2kuo4或棱角	Angular forms, outlines, or corners.
辨认	墓碑上的文字已严重磨损难以bian4ren4.	The lettering on the gravestone was badly worn and almost illegible.
事项	把这份报告中的有关shi4xiang4提交委员会讨论。	The relative items in this report will be submitted to the committee for discussion.
平面	齐平地使其均匀、在一个ping2mian4上或留边排版	So as to be even, in one plane, or aligned with a margin.
开阔	我们在kai1kuo4的原野上露营.	We bivouacked on the open plain.
火药	中国首先使用huo3yao4。	Gunpowder first came in in China.
渗透	染料shen4tou4进去了。	The dye works its way in.
柔和	油灯发出rou2he2的亮光。	The oil-lamp sent out a gentle beam.
批发	我们以pi1fa1交易方式进货.	We buy our supplies wholesale.
牢骚	我厌倦了你那没完没了的lao2sao1.	I'm tired of your unending complaints.
公式	我不能记得这些gong1shi4。	I can not memorize these formulas.
洪水	hong2shui3冲毁了许多桥梁.	Many bridges were swept away by the floods.
鲜明	胭脂红一种强烈到xian1ming2的红色	A strong to vivid red.
海拔	这个村子hai3ba2多少?	What is the altitude of this village?
供给	牛奶gong1ji3婴儿养料。	Milk nourishes a baby.
坡	我们顺著草po1滑下去.	We slid down the grassy slope.
根源	不开心是他生病的gen1yuan2。	Unhappiness is the root cause of his illness.
生效	这条规则sheng1xiao4了吗?	Is this rule in operation yet?
盈利	新经理的工作是让这家公司能恢复ying2li4状况。	The new manager's job is to restore the company to profitability.
档次	即使要求很高的市场对不同种类的商品，也需要有各种dang4ci4的货色和价格。	Even highly demanding markets require a wide range of quality and price levels for any group of products.
残疾	那个孩子的can2ji2是交通事故造成的。	The boy's deformity was caused by a traffic accident.
呻吟	她痛苦地shen1yin2.	She groaned with pain.
溅	她的衣服jian4上了泥污.	Her clothes were bespattered with mud.
观光	是否可在此购买guan1guang1巴士券？	Can I get a ticket for the sight- seeing bus here?
踪迹	狗嗅来嗅去，搜寻zong1ji4。	The dogs cast about seeking the scent.
逼迫	bi1po4bi1po4的行为	The act of compelling.
扭转	命运的niu3zhuan3；跌宕起伏的故事	A twist of fate; a story with a quirky twist.
周期	利率常以zhou1qi1方式浮动。	Interest rate generally fluctuates in a cyclical manner.
采集	我正cai3ji2消息。	I am gathering information.
冻结	霜把土壤dong4jie2了.	Frost binds the soil.
演变	争论yan3bian4成了公开的论战。	The argument boiled over into open war.
眯	他在很亮的阳光下mi1起了眼睛。	He squinted in the bright sunlight.
锋利	猫有feng1li4的爪子。	Cats have sharp claws.
大意	我听懂了他们谈话的da4yi5，但没有听懂其中的细节。	I understood the tenor of their conversation but not the details.
熄灭	请将香烟xi1mie4.	Please extinguish your cigarettes.
截止	我的天！jie2zhi3日期快到了。	Holy cow! The deadline is coming up.
款待	谢谢你的盛情kuan3dai4.	Thank you for your kind hospitality.
敏捷	min3jie2；灵活min3jie2的状态或品质；灵活	The state or quality of being agile; nimbleness.
大致	这些儿童在智力上da4zhi4相同.	In intelligence, the children are about equal.
书面	她认为你的shu1mian4作业不太好.	She has a rather poor opinion of your written work.
制裁	西方各国对这个国家实行了严厉zhi4cai2。	Western nations imposed tough sanctions on the country.
支出	我的zhi1chu1受我的收入限制。	My expenditure is conditioned by my income.
生机	这幅画充满着sheng1ji1，美极了。	The picture is instinct with life and beauty.
细致	她的xi4zhi4工作使得其余所有的人自愧不如。	Her careful work put all the rest to shame.
预兆	那是胜利的yu4zhao4。	It's an omen of victory.
飞跃	这是认识过程的一次fei1yue4。	It is a leap in the process of cognition.
种植	玉米在美洲广泛zhong4zhi2。	Maize is widely planted in the America.
颠簸	船在汹涌的海上dian1bo3.	The ship wallowed in the rough sea.
汹涌	他们跌进了xiong1yong3的急流中。	They fell into the seething waters of the rapids.
贝壳	小bei4ke2常被用作简单的货币。	Small seashells were often used as a primitive kind of money.
要点	讲演者直述yao4dian3。	The speaker came to the point straight away.
掀起	她xian1qi3锅盖加点盐。	She lifted the lid of the pot to add some salt.
台风	有刮tai2feng1的征兆。	There was a threat of typhoon.
拧	瓶盖没ning2正。	The bottle-top has been screwed on squint.
悬念	惊险故事连载每一集都在xuan2nian4中结束的情节剧连载	A melodramatic serial in which each episode ends in suspense.
安详	他脸上an1xiang2的微笑使我们都冷静下来。	His serene smile calmed all of us down.
断绝	这两个国家已经duan4jue2关系。	The two countries have severed their relations.
沉思	他沉溺于chen2si1冥想。	He was buried in meditation.
践踏	不要jian4ta4草地。	Don't trample on the grass.
搏斗	在bo2dou4中打出了几拳.	In the struggle several punches were thrown.
样品	我们的yang4pin3是通过邮包寄送的。	By parcel post our samples were sent.
不顾	他bu4gu4同事的劝告辞了职.	He went against the advice of his colleagues and resigned.
索性	咱们suo3xing4把蛋糕吃完吧, 也没剩多少了.	We might as well finish (up) the cake; there isn't much left.
政权	该zheng4quan2是靠外国援助维持著的.	The regime had been propped up by foreign aid.
过渡	我们希望能够和平guo4du4到新的制度。	We hope there will be a peaceful transition to the new system.
笨拙	蠢话，蠢事愚蠢的言语或ben4zhuo1的行为	A foolish or stupid utterance or deed.
皮革	pi2ge2受潮可变质.	Leather can deteriorate in damp conditions.
密封	这个瓶上的mi4feng1纸破开了。	The seal on this bottle is broken.
成效	这所学校保证立见cheng2xiao4。	The school promised rapid results.
糟蹋	那首交响乐曲给zao1ta5得不成样子。	The symphony was dreadfully mangled.
精通	他jing1tong1人情世故。	He was learned in the ways of the world.
照耀	月光zhao4yao4着郊外。	The moon kindled the countryside.
配备	公司给我pei4bei4了一名秘书.	The firm put a secretary at my disposal.
急切	他ji2qie4地要离开。	He was in a hurry to leave.
否决	法官fou3jue2了以前的判决。	The judge overruled the previous decision.
纵横	乡村的田野里阡陌zong4-heng2。	The paths crisscrossed in the fields in the countryside.
山脉	为翻越shan1mai4的不断努力	A long pull across the mountains.
疏忽	他们把事故归咎于驾驶员的shu1hu5。	They imputed the accident to the driver's carelessness.
凝固	果冻搀水太多就ning2gu4不好了.	You won't get a good set if you put too much water in the jelly.
港湾	gang3wan1里有许多渔船。	There are some fishing vessels in the harbor.
咀嚼	食物吞下去之前先要细细ju3jue2。	You must chew your food well before you swallow it.
崇高	追求chong2gao1的政治目标	Pursue lofty political goals.
还原	整形术的，huan2yuan2成形术有关对身体缺失部分进行huan2yuan2的外科手术的	Relating to the surgical restoration of a lost or absent part.
分量	这条棍子灌了铅增加了fen4liang5.	The stick had been weighted with lead.
主导	一小撮人在制定政策中已开始起zhu3dao3作用.	A smallgroup has begun to predominate in policy-making.
预先	请把行李yu4xian1送出.	Send your luggage on in advance.
动身	我们即将dong4shen1.	We're about to start.
吃苦	我想看见他受辱，他使别人chi1ku3，也让他吃同样的苦。	I like to see him in the dust, suffering as much as he had made others suffer.
擅自	她未请示上级shan4zi4把所有这些请柬都发了出去.	She issued all these invitations without any reference to her superiors.
筹备	我们已做好会议的全部chou2bei4工作。	We have made all the arrangements for the conference.
胡乱	脏碟子hu2luan4地堆放着。	Soiled dishes were piled at random.
探测	通道挖掘或tan4ce4而成的道路	A passage made by digging or probing.
文凭	这个学院只不过是个wen2ping2制造厂	The college was nothing more than a diploma mill.
胜负	姑不论sheng4-fu4, 这场比赛想必十分精彩.	Win or lose, it should be a very good match.
机灵	你注意到了这一点是够ji1ling5的。	It was very sharp of you to have noticed that.
吃力	那只猫拖著断腿chi1li4地走.	The cat was dragging its broken leg.
开支	购置武器的kai1zhi1很大。	The expenditure of money on weapons is very large.
延期	比赛因雨yan2qi1。	The game was put off because of rain.
陶瓷	我们所有的玻璃和tao2ci2器皿都放在柜橱里。	All our glass and china are kept in the cupboard.
容貌	人人都羡慕她娇美的rong2mao4。	Everyone admired the delicacy of her features.
标本	博物馆里有些很好的岩石和矿石biao1ben3.	There were some fine specimens of rocks and ores in the museum.
审理	该法院没有shen3li3该案的资格。	The court is not competent to try the case.
剧烈	疼痛越来越ju4lie4。	The pain increased in intensity.
诽谤	该书含有fei3bang4性的内容。	The book contains scandalous text.
容纳	这厅最多rong2na4七十人。	This hall holds a maximum of seventy people.
坚硬	冰象石头一样jian1ying4。	The ice is as hard as rock.
缠绕	线chan2rao4在纸筒上.	The string is wound round a cardboard cylinder.
充当	她极力掩盖她在此事中chong1dang1的角色。	She's very defensive about her part in the affair.
扩充	这本书是他以前写的剧本的kuo4chong1。	This book is an expansion of the play he wrote before.
反面	fan3mian4fan3mian4，如硬币的fan3mian4	The reverse side, as of a coin.
显著	差别对比是xian3zhu4的。	The contrast is remarkable.
救济	jiu4ji4品已急速送到.	Relief supplies were rushed in.
储蓄	chu3xu4是有远见的.	It's prudent to save.
草率	他cao3shuai4地回答了一声｀不!＇	`No!' was his curt rejoinder.
倒闭	商行生意衰退，最后dao3bi4了。	The business faltered and then failed.
节制	如果她没有无jie2zhi4地花钱，她亡夫的遗产是够她晚年用的。	The dowry will be enough for her old age had she not spent it irrationally.
宽敞	这是一间kuan1chang5的房屋。	It is a commodious house.
批判	老是唱反调的人pi1pan4地不同意的人	One who critically disagrees.
倾斜	地面向海岸qing1xie2.	The land inclines towards the shore.
防治	国会拨款两百万英镑作为fang2zhi4水灾之用。	Parliament appropriated two million pounds for flood control.
对应	录像磁带一种比较宽的磁带，用来记录图像和dui4ying4的声音以进行复放或者播放	A relatively wide magnetic tape used to record visual images and associated sound for subsequent playback or broadcasting.
贪污	tan1wu1腐败妨碍社会的发展。	Corruption stands in the way of the development of the society.
健全	jian4quan2的身体比金冕更有价值。	A good healthy body is worth more a crown in gold.
干预	你认为应该gan1yu4吗?	Do you consider it wise to interfere?
坚固	这管子柔软但很jian1gu4。	This tube is flexible but tough.
专长	他的zhuan1chang2是日本历史。	His specialty is Japanese history.
领土	ling3tu3被侵占者瓜分.	The territory was carved up by the occupying powers.
归还	财产于1998年将gui1huan2原所有人。	The property revert to its original owner in1998.
不得已	魔鬼所逼，bu4de2yi3也。	Needs must when the devil drives.
追究	这场火灾应该zhui1jiu1谁的责任?	Who is to blame for starting the fire?
杂技	za2ji4要用很长时间学习.	Acrobatics takes a long time to learn.
譬如	咱们去参观一下这个地方，pi4ru2说明天或是后天去。	Let's go and visit the place, say tomorrow or the day after tomorrow.
急躁	他的ji2zao4的脾气使他令人讨厌。	His hasty temper made him offensive.
源泉	可消费的yuan2quan2	An expendable source.
落实	所有的提议现在均已luo4shi2。	All the proposals have now been carried out.
条约	所有的tiao2yue1都由参议院批准。	The Senate confirms all treaties.
倘若	tang3ruo4外援枯竭，形势将极为严重。	If foreign aid dries up the situation will be desperate.
司令	他是远征军的si1ling4/探险队的队长。	He is the commander of the expedition.
留神	天花板很低, liu2shen2别碰头.	Mind you don't bump your head on the low ceiling.
粉末	搅动混合物而使fen3mo4溶化.	Agitate the mixture to dissolve the powder.
格式	法庭中使用的誓词有固定的ge2shi4.	There is a standard form of oath used in lawcourts.
漂浮	木头能piao1fu2（於水面）.	Wood floats (in water).
协商	他们之间存在的分歧应通过xie2shang1解决。	The difficulty among them should be resolved by consultation.
固然	她gu4ran2很好，但有必要那样大肆吹捧吗？	She was good, but was it any good to pour it on like that?
债券	我们银行现在经营zhai4quan4与股票。	My bank deals in stocks and shares now.
对策	我队要求暂停，以便商讨新的dui4ce4。	Our team asked for time out to discuss a new plan.
无动于衷	他的态度既冷淡又wu2 dong4 yu2 zhong1。	His manner was cold and indifferent.
构思	这个计划在gou4si1上很有想象力。	The plan is very imaginative in conception.
间接	jian4jie1宣传；jian4jie1无线电传送	Black propaganda; black radio transmissions.
变质	bian4zhi4从一种物质向另一种物质的转化	Conversion of one substance into another.
充沛	丰富极其丰富的状态；chong1pei4	The state of being profuse; abundance.
孤立	敌人龟缩在几个gu1li4的据点里。	The enemy was holed up in a few isolated strongholds.
朴实	pu3shi2的样式或风格上pu3shi2简单的；质朴的	Pure or simple in design or style; austere.
沉闷	主席一直以chen2men4的语调讲了几小时.	The chairman droned on for hours.
日益	为独立而斗争的势头ri4yi4增长。	The struggle for independence is gaining momentum every day.
科目	我的主修ke1mu4是法语。	My major is French.
索取	备有目录供suo3qu3.	Catalogues are available on request.
朴素	我想要pu3su4而文静的。	I'd like something plain and quiet.
藐视	抗议者miao3shi4官方的示威禁令.	The protesters showed their defiance of the official ban on demonstrations.
胆怯	他在外面犹豫徘徊, 因过於dan3qie4而不敢进去.	He hovered about outside, too afraid to go in.
刊登	所有日报都kan1deng1了这条消息.	The news was blazed all over the daily papers.
诚挚	她的cheng2zhi4让我深受感动。	I was deeply moved by her earnestness.
粥	zhou1有益于消化。	Porridge is good for digestion.
宣扬	供传阅的，流通的xuan1yang2或发送给大批人的	Addressed or distributed to a large number of persons.
弦	月球现处於下xian2.	The moon is in its last quarter.
见解	这是我私下持有的jian4jie3.	That's my private opinion.
实质	无shi2zhi4的，无价值的，无根据的	Lacking substance, value, or basis.
迫害	犹太人在希特勒的统治下受到残酷的po4hai4。	The Jews suffered terrible persecution under Hitler's rule.
起源	这种建筑风格qi3yuan2于古希腊。	The style of architecture originated from the ancient Greeks.
响应	他的想法获得热烈的xiang3ying4。	His idea received an enthusiastic response.
平原	大风扫过ping2yuan2。	The wind whipped across the plain.
桥梁	这个城市因为各种qiao2liang2而著称。	This city is noted for its various bridges.
偏僻	她住在一个pian1pi4的小农场上.	She lives on a small farm in the middle of nowhere.
散布	灌木san4bu4在树林之中。	Bushes were interspersed among trees.
调动	被diao4dong4或迁移的人或物	One who is transferred.
贬低	那个女人常bian3di1我的成就。	The woman always disparages my achievements.
公务	gong1wu4信件在早晨开启.	The office mail is opened in the morning.
大臣	该da4chen2已示意他明年可能辞职.	The minister has indicated that he may resign next year.
致力	她毕生zhi4li4于科学。	She dedicated her life to science.
枯萎	久旱使青草ku1wei3。	The long drought scorched the grass.
器材	把你们的qi4cai2准备好，开始行动的时刻到了。	Get your equipment ready, it's coming up to zero hour.
繁殖	兔子fan2zhi2得很快.	Rabbits multiply rapidly.
晋升	她不久就要jin4sheng1了.	She's due for promotion soon.
严密	他们yan2mi4监视他，惟恐他会逃脱。	They watched him closely in case he should escape.
国防	空军是guo2fang2的重要组成部分。	Air force is an important component of national defense.
声誉	他赢得钢琴家的sheng1yu4。	He won renown as a pianist.
夹杂	他的黑发中jia1za2着银发。	His black hair was threaded with silver.
机动	在那次战役中，坦克常常用来起支援作用；像ji1dong4炮那样掩护步兵。	In that campaign, the tanks were often used in a support role, shooting-in die infantry as mobile artillery.
惋惜	我非常为你wan3xi1。	I'm dreadfully sorry for you.
阶层	她出身於特权jie1ceng2.	She came from a privileged background.
转让	他打算把财产zhuan3rang4给儿子。	He intends to transfer the property to his son.
波浪	bo1lang4平静下来了.	The waves stilled.
腐蚀	酸能fu3shi2金属.	Acids eat into metal.
庄严	严肃或zhuang1yan2的举止	Solemnity or dignity of manner.
合伙	我过去和他he2huo3经商。	I associated with him in business.
经费	他总是叹息研究jing1fei4不足。	He always bemoans the shortage of funds for research.
妥当	我们用粗绳把所有包裹捆扎tuo3dang5。	We tied up both package well with heavy cord.
海滨	我喜欢沿着hai3bin1散步。	I like to walk along the seashore.
衣裳	箱子里装满了yi1shang5。	The trunk was packed with clothes.
狭窄	他在xia2zhai3的窗台上很难保持平衡.	He balanced precariously on the narrow window-ledge.
辫子	她把头发编成bian4zi5。	She wore her hair in plaits.
化石	hua4shi2的记录	A fossil record.
投机	他在做些无利可图的tou2ji1生意。	He makes some unprofitable speculations.
审美	这两位艺术家并非都有shen3mei3的眼光。	Not both the artists have a keen eye for beauty.
恰巧	我母亲qia4qiao3那天出去了。	It happened that my mother was out that day.
眨	他会心地向她zha3了zha3眼.	He winked at her knowingly.
表彰	所有战士作战英勇都受到biao3zhang1。	All the soldiers were cited for bravery in battle.
仓促	他们鲁莽cang1cu4地采取了行动。	They acted with precipitate haste.
蔑视	他宣称mie4shi4钱财。	He claims to despise riches.
流通	旧硬币已经收回不再liu2tong1了.	The old coins have been withdrawn from circulation.
钦佩	我们qin1pei4他的正直。	We admire him for his righteousness.
布局	他们正在了解房屋的bu4ju2。	They are getting to know the geographical house.
商标	现在请注意它的shang1biao1。	Now pay attention its brand please.
愚昧	我不赞成损害与生俱来的yu2mei4的任何事物。	I do not approve of anything which tampers with natural ignorance.
面貌	好看的身材或mian4mao4上让人愉快的，端庄的	Pleasing and dignified in form or appearance.
示威	警察和shi4wei1群众混战起来。	The police scuffled with the demonstrators.
别致	新方法、革新机智的诡计、办法或方法，尤指新颖bie2zhi4的方法；创新	A clever trick, method, or device, especially one that is new and different; an innovation.
垂直	这座山向北的一面几乎是chui2zhi2的。	The northern face of the mountain is almost vertical.
触犯	反英宣传chu4fan4了众怒.	The anti-British propaganda gave (ie caused) much offence.
沉着	她假装chen2zhuo2。	She affect composure.
不料	我原以为发生的事是够糟的了，bu4liao4更糟的事还在后头。	I thought that what happened was bad enough, but worse was to follow.
众所周知	这场事故zhong4 suo3 zhou1 zhi1。	This accident is widely known.
施展	他渴望当演员, 你就得容他时间让他shi1zhan3自己的抱负.	He desperately wants to be an actor, so you'll have to give him time to get it out of his system.
饶恕	我决不能rao2shu4查理曼大帝之将时钟引进西方文明这一件事情。	I can never forgive Charlemagne for introducing clocks into Western civilization.
土壤	tu3rang3里施了硝酸盐肥料。	The soil is enriched with nitrates.
尖锐	他写的文章jian1rui4深刻。	He writes with penetration.
公认	如今人们gong1ren4这是个错误.	It is now generally admitted to have been (ie Most people agree and accept that it was) a mistake.
焦急	一些亲属团团围住运输事务所jiao1ji2地向工作人质问个不休。	Relatives besieged the shipping office and plied the staff with anxious inquiries.
裁员	为节省开支现正逐渐cai2yuan2.	The number of employees is being whittled down in order to reduce costs.
叹气	在我们忍不住tan4qi4并开始忍住呵欠之前，蜜月是还未度过的哪。	The honeymoon was not until we ceased to stifle our sigh and began to stifle our yawn.
大肆	好战份子da4si4宣传或欲鼓动起战争的人	One who advocates or attempts to stir up war.
名副其实	他是一位ming2 fu4 qi2 shi2的好领袖。	He is a good leader in deed as well as in name.
盘旋	鹰在头顶上pan2xuan2。	The hawk is hovering overhead.
耗费	这项工程hao4fei4了长期的艰辛劳动	Spent many laborious hours on the project.
斯文	孩子听了客人说的幽默话, 都si1wen2地笑了.	The children smiled politely at the visitor's pleasantries.
选拔	有3000个男孩子参加了xuan3ba2赛。	3000 boys turned up for the selective trials.
结晶	下等金刚石jie2jing1很差的金刚石，用于工业切割和研磨	Poorly crystallized diamonds used for industrial cutting and abrasion.
荒凉	月球多石的、huang1liang2的表面	The rocky, desolate surface of the moon.
亏损	我们今年有很大kui1sun3。	We have a great deficit this year.
向导	指引物，指针用来作xiang4dao3的事物	Something that serves to guide.
人道	这只受伤的狗要予以ren2dao4毁灭.	The injured dog had to be destroyed.
攒	他一点儿一点儿zan3钱直到够买一辆汽车.	He saved money bit by bit until he had enough to buy a car.
混淆	别把澳大利亚和奥地利hun4xiao2了。	Please don't confuse Australia with Austria.
幅度	鉴别器，鉴频器一种将输入信号的某一特征，如频率或相位转变为fu2du4变化装置，其变化大小因信号与标准或参考信号的不同程度而异	A device that converts a property of an input signal, such as frequency or phase, into an amplitude variation, depending on how the signal differs from a standard or reference signal.
叮嘱	已经特别ding1zhu3过你不要吃鱼.	You were specifically warned not to eat fish.
领事馆	ling3shi4guan3周日不办公。	The consulate is closed on Sunday.
密度	水的mi4du4是1。	The density of water is 1.
事迹	报纸称颂了他们的英雄shi4ji4。	The newspapers glorified their heroic deeds.
片断	总而言之，这是一个妙极了的激动人心的凯尔特故事，中间穿插着一些闪烁着智慧与机智的pian4duan4。	All in all then, it is a rattling good Celtic yearn with a few fragments of wit-and-wisdom thrown in.
恨不得	我hen4bu5de2我很富有.	I wish I were rich.
口头	背书小学生将已准备好的课文kou3tou2背出来	Oral delivery of prepared lessons by a pupil.
称心如意	这项新工作对我来说处处chen4xin1-ru2yi4.	This new job suits me to a T.
以致	她那么傻，yi3zhi4被人嘲笑。	She was laughed at for being so foolish.
胸膛	子弹击中了他的xiong1tang2。	The bullet hit him in the chest.
中立	那艘船因违犯zhong1li4而被捕获。	The ship was prized for violating neutrality.
浓厚	近来对古典音乐的兴趣又nong2hou4起来。	Interest in classic music has revived recently.
衰退	他的精力似乎正在shuai1tui4。	His energy seemed to ebb.
传授	教师的作用是chuan2shou4知识。	A teacher's aim is to impart knowledge.
随即	sui2ji2紧随这之后	Immediately after this.
提拔	你若是规规矩矩的，老板就可能ti2ba2你。	If you keep your nose clean, the boss might promote you.
迁就	他不得不qian1jiu4他的弟弟。	He has to appease his young brother.
殖民地	法国一度是占有zhi2min2di4的强国.	France was once a colonial power.
水龙头	这shui3long2tou2好拧.	This tap turns easily/It's easy to turn this tap.
缺口	大浪在堤上冲出一个que1kou3.	The huge waves made a breach in the sea wall.
兴旺	有了她当主管, 公司开始xing1wang4起来.	With her at the wheel, the company began to prosper.
施加	必然力环境shi1jia1的压力	The force exerted by circumstance.
摸索	我们在黑暗中mo1suo3。	We groped amid the darkness.
嗅觉	狗的xiu4jue2很灵敏.	Dogs have a keen sense of smell.
庸俗	这本书有yong1su2的味道。	This book has plebeian tastes.
托运	货物已由铁路tuo1yun4到你处。	The goods were consigned to you by railway.
诧异	他对这个事件毫不知情，真让人感到cha4yi4。	It was amazing that he knew nothing about the event.
间隔	注意jian4ge2, 否则这个标题一行排不下.	Be careful with your spacing or you won't get the heading on one line.
遭殃	敌兵纷纷逃窜，听任后面的人zao1yang1。	The enemy soldiers fled and let the devil catch the hindmost.
划分	在现实生活中, 要hua4fen1好人和坏人并非易事.	In real life, it's not so easy to divide people into goodies and baddies.
主权	zhu3quan2，统治权王子或王侯的地位、权力或司法权；zhu3quan2	The position, authority, or jurisdiction of a prince; sovereignty.
打量	他上下da3liang5我。	He looked me up and down.
接连	保守党势必jie1lian2第三届执政.	The Tories in their third term will be unstoppable.
修建	村民一致反对xiu1jian4旁道.	The villagers are unanimous in their opposition to the building of a bypass.
嘈杂	她的卧室是这座cao2za2房屋中一个难得的安静之处。	Her bedroom is an oasis of calm in the noisy house.
著作	这部zhu4zuo4已是第三次重印了.	The work is into its third reprint.
田野	小羊羔在tian2ye3里跳跃嬉戏。	The lambs were capering about in the fields.
飘扬	旗子在风中piao1yang2。	Flags are fluttering in the breeze.
腐朽	社会的组织日趋fu3xiu3。	The social fabric is rotting.
直径	极距；两极的zhi2jing4	Polar distance; polar diameter.
据悉	ju4xi1，在审理戈蒂时，格拉瑟对联邦调查局、检察官、被告律师以及媒体毫不客气。他打了好几通电话给塞申斯，要他必须查出《每日新闻》的消息来源。	Glasser, who rode roughshod over the FBI, prosecutors, defense lawyers and the press during the Gotti trial, made a series of telephone calls to Sessions demanding that the sources for The News story be found, sources said.
要素	分解（作用）分解或分裂为部分或yao4su4	Disintegration or decomposition into parts or elements.
变迁	bian4qian1，盛衰在人的一生中、活动中或者周围环境中会碰到的忽然或者想不到的变化或bian4qian1	One of the sudden or unexpected changes or shifts often encountered in one's life, activities, or surroundings.
课题	我们的教授要求他就这个ke4ti2写篇论文。	Our professor asked him to write a treatise on the subject.
濒临	再过几天，这家公司就将bin1lin2破产的边缘。	A few more days, and the company will be on the verge of bankruptcy.
附属	她已调到fu4shu3建筑的办事处去了.	She's been shunted off to an office in the annexe.
派遣	pai4qian3了一些士兵守卫右翼.	A number of men were detached to guard the right flank.
胡须	他的hu2xu1垂到胸前.	His beard fell to his chest.
生锈	铁容易sheng1xiu4。	Iron is apt to rust.
失事	那艘船触珊瑚礁shi1shi4.	The ship was wrecked on a coral reef.
薄弱	链条中bo2ruo4的一环	A weak link in a chain.
普及	现今，移动电话非常pu3ji2。	Portable telephones are very popular nowadays.
庄稼	zhuang1jia5在旱灾中枯死了。	The crops died during the drought.
停顿	他ting2dun4了一下然後继续讲话.	He paused for a moment, and then continued his speech.
迁徙	移居到发展中地区的人不久就qian1xi3到内地了.	Settlers soon spread inland.
断定	我确实没法duan4ding4。	I really couldn't tell.
管辖	这件事情在他的guan3xia2权限之内。	This affair is within his jurisdiction.
废除	应该fei4chu2死刑吗?	Should the death penalty be abolished?
二氧化碳	er4yang3hua4tan4是由碳和氧组成的。	Carbon dioxide consists of carbon and oxygen.
鉴别	jian4bie2器，鉴频器一种将输入信号的某一特征，如频率或相位转变为幅度变化装置，其变化大小因信号与标准或参考信号的不同程度而异	A device that converts a property of an input signal, such as frequency or phase, into an amplitude variation, depending on how the signal differs from a standard or reference signal.
创立	一位美国大学校长曾经评论说爱因斯坦chuang4li4了一种新的观点，即一种新的宇宙观。	An American university president once commented that Einstein has created a new outlook, a new view of the universe.
高超	表演很gao1chao1。	The acting is superb.
溶解	水能rong2jie3盐.	Water dissolves salt.
寒暄	领导人互相han2xuan1一番, 然後开始谈判.	After an exchange of pleasantries, the leaders started their negotiations.
未免	谢绝他的好意wei4mian3失策.	It might be impolitic to refuse his offer.
舟	那种浅底小船叫小zhou1。	The small shallow boat is called a cockle.
锤	摆chui2能摆动.	A pendulum oscillates.
窜	一只狐狸从灌木丛中cuan4了出来。	A fox dart out of the midst of the thicket.
牢固	紧密的物质上lao2gu4的或致密的	Firm or compact in substance.
迟疑	她没有chi2yi2, 痛快地答覆了.	She didn't hesitate for a moment but came straight out with her reply.
情理	无意义的事没有意义或qing2li3的事物	Something empty of meaning or sense.
迎面	汽车ying2mian4撞到树上.	The car hit the tree head-on.
理睬	没人li3cai3他。	Nobody speaks to him.
礼节	让我们免除li3jie2。	Let us avoid the etiquette.
高涨	潮水正在gao1zhang3。	The tide is at the flood.
败坏	他企图bai4huai4对手名声反而自食其果, 被控以诽谤罪.	His attempt to discredit his opponent boomeranged (on him) when he was charged with libel.
英明	领导做了ying1ming2的决定。	The leader made a sagacious decision.
严峻	我们十分清楚形势的yan2jun4性。	We are fully aware of the gravity of the situation.
公然	他gong1ran2蔑视上司，并要求他作出解释。	He bearded his boss and demanded an explanation.
剥削	在旧社会工人农民是被bo1xue1的阶级。	Is the old society worker and farmer is exploited class.
丙	斯珀尔斯队会降为bing3级队吗?	Will Spurs be relegated to the third division?
起草	谁将qi3cao3起诉状？	Who will draft the indictment?
肖像	他是一个xiao4xiang4画家。	He is a portrait painter.
治理	这个国家一直zhi4li3得不错。	The country has always had fair government.
考核	有多少受训的飞行员没有通过上次kao3he2而被淘汰？	How many pilots in training were washed out in the last examination?
滔滔不绝	他讲得tao1tao1-bu4jue2，别人都无法插嘴。	He talk so much that no one else can get a word in edgeways.
捎	我能给她shao1个口信吗?	Shall I take a message for her?
灵敏	艺术家对于美的感觉很ling2min3。	An artist is sensitive to beauty.
物资	无论如何, 医疗wu4zi1会在一周内到达。	At any rate, the medical supplies will reach you within a week.
响亮	重击有力而声音xiang3liang4的重击	A forceful, resounding blow.
含糊	这篇报道不是颠倒黑白就是han2hu5其辞.	The report was full of lies and prevarications.
培育	在党的pei2yu4下，他已成长为一个优秀的战士。	Nurtured by the Party, he grown into a good fighter.
承办	这律师免费cheng2ban4那个案件。	The lawyer undertook the case without a fee.
喧哗	她爱市场上的生趣、xuan1hua2与多姿多彩。	She loved the life, noise, and color of the market.
上游	她向河的shang4you2而行。	She went up the river.
调解	调停tiao2jie3争端	Mediation in a dispute.
掰	她bai1下一块巧克力给我.	She broke off a piece of chocolate and gave it to me.
框架	柱，杆建筑物kuang4jia4中横梁的支撑物	A support for a beam in the framework of a building.
嘱咐	他们zhu3fu4我去看他。	I was charged to go and see him.
悬挂	全场里xuan2gua4着标语。	Slogans were hung in the hall.
杜绝	他们du4jue2了这些坏事。	They put a stop to the evils.
摄氏度	七月份最高温度可能达到36She4shi4du4。	The maximum temperature in July may be 36 Celsius degree.
体积	他们是否按ti3ji1计算运费？	Do they charge carriage by bulk?
传记	他在写牛顿的zhuan4ji4.	He's writing a life of Newton.
拥护	我yong1hu4逐步改革的政策.	I advocate a policy of gradual reform.
压缩	该气体在ya1suo1状态下贮存於罐中.	The gas is stored under pressure in the tank.
哆嗦	我浑身duo1suo5.	I felt all trembly.
瓦解	迪纳摩队的防守看起来已wa3jie3了。	Dynamo's defence looks disorganize.
零星	预料今天下午有ling2xing1阵雨。	Scattered showers are expected this afternoon.
局限	自由的没有限制或ju2xian4的；不受约束的	Not limited or restricted; unrestrained.
无微不至	现在大多数国家的儿童受到wu2 wei1 bu4 zhi4的关怀。	The children have the best of care in most of the countries now.
霞	傍晚的云xia2绚丽多彩。	In the evening the rosy clouds were gorgeous.
品德	她具有优良pin3de2。	She possesses good qualities.
想方设法	他xiang3fang1-she4fa3安慰她.	He tried to find ways of mollifying her.
四肢	狗舒展着si4zhi1躺在树下。	The dog stretched out under the tree.
严禁	校园内yan2jin4吸烟。	The prohibition against smoking on school grounds is strictly enforced.
散文	他写作文或读san3wen2。	He wrote a composition or (he) read an essay.
新颖	她的设计十分xin1ying3。	Her designs have great originality.
领会	你ling3hui4我说的意思吗？	Do you grasp the point of what I said?
可观	那几笔款子加起来总数很ke3guan1。	The sums reached to a considerable total.
坚实	它的重工业有广泛jian1shi2的基础。	Her heavy industry rests on a broad and firm base.
航天	这种新材料是hang2tian1工业的副产品.	This new material is a spin-off from the space industry.
连同	商店lian2tong2其商誉一并出售.	The goodwill is being sold together with the shop.
陈旧	那泵的机件很chen2jiu4了.	The mechanics of the pump are very old.
巴结	他讨厌对他如此ba1jie5。	He hates being buttered up so.
巩固	他贿赂他的领导来gong3gu4他的地位。	He bribes his leader to consolidate his position.
上任	管弦乐队新来的指挥一shang4ren4就先把较差的演奏人员清除出去了。	The new conductor start by weed out the weaker player in the orchestra.
转折	我们经过好多小时的辩论以后，谈判有了zhuan3zhe2，没用多久便达成了协议。	After all those hours of arguing, the talks began to head out and it was not long before we were able to reach an agreement.
率领	他shuai4ling3士兵袭击城堡。	He led an assault against the castle.
表决	该少数民族应归属哪一州的问题已由公民投票biao3jue2.	The question of which state the minority group should belong to was decided by (a) plebiscite.
逝世	祖母shi4shi4时他们开始服丧.	When grandmother died they went into (ie started to wear) mourning.
干劲	她工作起来gan4jin4十足.	She does her work with tremendous vigour.
美观	您一定发现我们产品的包装mei3guan1讲究。	I think you'll find the packing beautiful and quite well-done.
闲话	他专爱说人xian2hua4.	He's a terrible gossip.
便条	我在他桌上留了张bian4tiao2。	I leave a note on his desk.
优越	对自己怀有奇特的you1yue4感	Fantastic ideas about her own superiority.
专程	我是zhuan1cheng2来看你的.	I came here specially to see you.
炎热	yan2re4的天气持续到九月。	The hot weather lasted until September.
埋没	在那些岁月里，有才干的青年常常被mai2mo4。	In those days talented young people were too often ploughed under.
跟前	他走到我gen1qian2问我什麽时间了.	He came up (to me) and asked the time.
主办	今年的运动会由哪国zhu3ban4?	Which country is hosting the Games this year?
泄气	我是失望，而不是xie4qi4。	I was more disappointed than discouraged.
缓和	他要想当选就得把观点改得huan3he2些.	He'll have to modify his views if he wants to be elected.
分寸	有fen1cun4的善意	A measure of good-will.
播种	这些种子应在四月bo1zhong3。	These seeds should be sown in April.
宏伟	帕台农神庙是一座hong2wei3的建筑物.	The Parthenon is a magnificent structure.
请柬	各方qing3jian3纷至沓来。	Invitations rained in on all sides.
威风	他喜欢对下级职员逞wei1feng1.	He likes to lord it over the junior staff.
独裁	那个国家现在正处于军事du2cai2统治之下。	That country is now living under a military dictatorship.
对照	dui4zhao4物对比平行的成分、项目或主题	A contrasting but parallel element, item, or theme.
开拓	kai1tuo4三十英亩土地	Developing a30-acre tract.
私自	本阅览室的参考书不得si1zi4带出。	No reference books are to be taken out of the reading room without permission.
文献	现有大量关于第一次世界大战的wen2xian4。	There is now extensive literature dealing with the First World War.
爱戴	他极为大家所ai4dai4。	He is held in affection.
重叠	这两门课程之间不存在chong2die2的问题。	There is no question of overlap between the two courses.
攀登	留点力气准备pan1deng1吧.	Reserve your strength for the climb.
号召	政府hao4zhao4青年义务献血。	The government calls on the youth to donate their blood voluntarily.
阻拦	让她走，别zu3lan2她。	Let her go. Don't stop her.
鞭策	他噼噼啪啪地挥bian1ce4马狂跑。	He cracked his whip and the horses began to trot.
对称	他为我们介绍了花园中dui4chen4的布局。	He introduced to us the symmetrical arrangement of the garden.
外行	我对音乐是wai4hang2。	I am no judge of music.
不屑一顾	王公贵族以bu4xie4-yi1gu4的傲慢态度对待平民百姓。	The nobles treated the common people with haughty contempt.
力争	我为她li4zheng1，以求改变决定。	I intervened on her behalf to try to get the decision changed.
来历	这所房子有一段奇怪的lai2li4.	This house has a strange history.
理直气壮	必须对实情胸有成竹才能li3zhi2-qi4zhuang4地（到处）指责（别人）.	You must be certain of your facts before you start flinging accusations (around) (at people).
采纳	但愿我的建议能被cai3na4.	I'm crossing my fingers that my proposal will be accepted.
遮挡	我们用灌木丛zhe1dang3著换衣服.	The bushes will screen us while we change.
驻扎	那些士兵现zhu4zha1于柏林。	The soldiers are now stationed in Berlin.
总和	五加三的zong3he2是八。	The sum of 5 and 3 is 8.
加剧	船颠簸jia1ju4，他知道海浪猛烈起来了。	The added motion of the ship told him the sea was getting up.
奥秘	那是无法解释的ao4mi4。	It's an insoluble mystery.
发扬	我们应该fa1yang2革命传统。	We shall carry forward the revolutionary tradition.
生疏	我板球曾打得很好，可惜现在已sheng1shu1了。	I used to be good at cricket, but now I'm out of practice.
就职	克林顿jiu4zhi2美国总统。	Mr. Clinton was inaugurated as the President of the U.S.A.
俯视	讲演的人fu3shi4著下面无数的面孔.	The lecturer looked down at the sea of faces beneath him.
阻挠	他事事zu3nao2我。	He crossed me in everything.
兴高采烈	她xing4gao1-cai3lie4地为他送行。	She sent him off in high spirits.
隔阂	我认为我和我女儿之间没有ge2he2。	I think there is no gulf between my daughter and I.
对立	奴役与自由是dui4li4的.	Slavery is the antithesis of freedom.
致使	飞机猛然俯冲zhi4shi3驾驶员昏厥。	The plane dive suddenly, cause the pilot to black out.
规格	你能否给我一份有gui1ge2说明的价目单吗？	Can you give me a price list with specification?
争端	谈判双方正寻求和平解决zheng1duan1的办法.	Negotiators are looking for a peaceful settlement to the dispute.
空想	别kong1xiang3了，还是从实际出发吧。	Stop daydreaming and be realistic.
座右铭	“三思而后行”是我的zuo4you4ming2。	Think before you act"" is my motto.
改良	不悔改的未在精神上自新或gai3liang2的；不惭愧的	Not spiritually renewed or reformed; not repentant.
瘸	出事後他的左腿que2了.	The accident made him lame in the left leg.
权衡	他在脑中quan2heng2着这些想法。	He weighed the ideas in his mind.
便于	如果你们能多给我们一些佣金，就可以bian4yu2我方推销。	It will be easier for us to push the sale if you can give us more commission.
谦逊	qian1xun4的以一种谦卑或温顺的方式	In a meek or humble manner.
怠慢	别dai4man4了客人。	See that none of the guests are neglected.
齐心协力	他们qi2xin1-xie2li4为祖国战斗。	They fought for their motherland shoulder to shoulder.
天然气	tian1ran2qi4的严重缺乏使许多家工厂都停工了。	A severe natural gas shortage shut down many plants.
条理	所提交的资料缺乏tiao2li3.	The presentation of the material was untidy.
动荡	贫富不均可造成社会dong4dang4.	Inequalities in wealth cause social unrest.
范畴	获得物获得的东西，尤指一确定fan4chou2或群体之外的	Something acquired, especially an addition to an established category or group.
停滞	经济正在ting2zhi4。	The economy is stagnating.
腥	渔民家总有股鱼xing1味。	The fisherman's house smells of fish.
参照	互见can1zhao4从书、索引、目录或文件的一部分到另一含有相关资料部分的can1zhao4	A reference from one part of a book, index, catalogue, or file to another part containing related information.
钩子	我胸针的gou1zi5断了。	The clasp of my brooch is broken.
庄重	他用zhuang1zhong4的声音宣布这一消息。	He gave the news out in grave voice.
切实	长期地经验使他们能制订出一个正确和qie4shi2的方案	Long experience enabled them to hammer out a correct and practical scheme.
拘束	我觉察到我在时他们有些ju1shu4.	I was aware of a certain constraint on their part when they were in my presence.
和气	他多么he2qi4！	How kind he is!
抱负	她公开声称她的bao4fu4是要当政治家.	Her declared ambition is to become a politician.
力所能及	人只能做li4suo3neng2ji2的事。	A man can do no more than he can.
结算	你跟她jie2suan4货款了吗?	Have you settled (up) with her for the goods?
得力	我们的销售方法de2li4, 超过主要对手几个等级.	Our marketing methods put us several steps ahead of our main rivals.
昼夜	但愿他别再zhou4-ye4不分地招待他的朋友.	I wish he'd desist from entertaining his friends at all hours of the day and night.
镶嵌	这是一幅由草地，河流，树木组成的五光十色的xiang1qian4画。	It's a rich mosaic of meadows, rivers and woods.
简陋	这地方虽然jian3lou4，却是我们的会议厅。	Crude and simple, this place had to serve as the meeting hall.
伯母	她除了有一个年老的bo2mu3以外, 再没有亲戚了.	She has no relations besides an aged aunt.
现成	你们有适合我穿的xian4cheng2的衣服吗？	Do you have anything ready- make that will fit me?
妥善	庄稼已tuo3shan4收获完毕.	The harvest has been safely gathered in.
推论	他硬说我们的tui1lun4完全错了。	He insisted that our inference was all wet.
通俗	任何知名人士都要冒风险，会成为tong1su2刊物的众矢之的。	Any public figure risks being made an Aunt Sally by the popular press.
文雅	她非常wen2ya3，吃蛋糕一定用小叉子。	She's so refined that she always eats cake with a little fork.
优异	你的考试成绩you1yi4。	Your examination results are excellent.
歪曲	别wai1qu1我说的话。	Stop distorting what I've said.
势必	保守党shi4bi4接连第三届执政.	The Tories in their third term will be unstoppable.
示意	她举起一根手指放在唇边，shi4yi4肃静。	She raised her finger to her lips as a sign for silence.
沿海	他正yan2hai3边走去。	He is walking down the seaside.
微观	岩性学对岩石的wei1guan1研究、描绘和分类	The microscopic study, description, and classification of rock.
过问	我将亲自guo4wen4此事.	I shall give the matter my personal attention.
蔚蓝	清澈的水中映出wei4lan2的天空。	The clear water mirrored the blue sky.
削弱	这一时期地主的势力xue1ruo4了.	The power of the landowners waned during this period.
操劳	我想一家有六个孩子对他们的父母就意味着许多cao1lao2。	I reckon six children in a family means a lot of work for the parents.
阐述	请你chan3shu4这一理论，行吗？	Could you elaborate on this theory?
贯彻	我们将怎样guan4che4这个计划仍需要讨论。	How we shall carry out this plan still needs to be discussed.
冰雹	外面在下bing1bao2。	It's hailing outside.
精密	这位科学家需要一些jing1mi4的仪器。	The scientist needs some delicate instruments.
时事	她发表shi2shi4广播演说。	She broadcasts on current affairs.
规章	新gui1zhang1对我们大家都会大有好处.	The new regulations will be of great benefit to us all.
交涉	他在为一笔货款进行jiao1she4。	He is treating for a loan.
排放	一堆，一叠按堆pai2fang4或扔在一起的一些东西	A quantity of objects stacked or thrown together in a heap.
倡导	这一机构是在一家大企业chang4dao3下开办的。	This establishment opened under the sponsorship of a large corporation.
巴不得	那些小男孩儿ba1bu5de5让那欺负人的坏蛋也尝点苦头.	The smaller boys badly wanted to give the bully a dose of his own medicine.
涌现	yong3xian4了大批积极分子。	Many activists have come forward.
佳肴	他们用美味jia1yao2款待客人.	They feasted their guests with delicacies.
整顿	zheng3dun4饭都很好, 尤其是葡萄酒更好.	The whole meal was good but the wine in particular was excellent.
开辟	销售经理想在远东kai1pi4新市场。	The sales manager wants to open up new markets in the Far East.
湖泊	大部分hu2po1都在北部中心地区吗？	Are most of the lakes Located in the north central region?
饱和	旧车买卖的市场已趋bao3he2。	The market is saturated with the used cars.
波涛	轮船沉没于bo1tao1下面。	The ship sank beneath the waves.
无偿	我们的全部电机都包换1年；如出现机械故障，任何有故障的零部件均由制造厂wu2chang2更换。	All our electric motors are guaranteed for one year; in the event of mechanical failure, the makers will replace any faulty part free.
急剧	价格仍然在ji2ju4上涨。	Prices are still spiralling.
督促	这孩子要有人du1cu4, 否则她什麽也不干.	One has to push the child or she will do no work at all.
屏障	这座山高而陡，形成一道岩石ping2zhang4。	The mountain rose up in a steep wall of rock.
申报	你必须shen1bao4去年的总收入.	You must declare all you have earned in the last year.
牲畜	那群sheng1chu4被绳子拴着。	The animals were fastened by tether.
指南针	你知道是谁发明的zhi3nan2zhen1吗？	Do you know who invents the compass?
力求	我们必须li4qiu2把记帐方法制度化.	We must try to systematize the way we do the accounts.
简化	那可jian3hua4了我的工作。	That will simplify my task.
淡水	这个dan4shui3湖里有许多种鱼。	There are many fish in this freshwater lake.
调和	她用挖苦的语tiao2he5他说话。	She talked with him with sarcastic tones.
烘	很遗憾你的饼hong1坏了，但不要紧，下次hong1得好些。	I'm sorry the cake you baked turned out a flop; never mind, better luck next time.
伤脑筋	我们的新汽车很让人shang1 nao3jin1.	We're having trouble with our new car.
暂且	请你zan4qie3控制住感情.	Please contain your enthusiasm for a moment.
尖端	尖的，尖锐的有尖点或jian1duan1的	Having a sharp point or tip.
园林	皇家yuan2lin2卫队保护皇家森林和公园的看守者	The keeper of a royal forest or park.
里程碑	li3cheng2bei1，里程标路边所设立的石制标志，以英里指示从给定的一点到该路标的距离	A stone marker set up on a roadside to indicate the distance in miles from a given point.
迸发	誓言的beng4fa1	A volley of oaths.
轮船	开往上海的lun2chuan2星期三启程。	The steamers for Shanghai leave on Wednesday.
诬陷	难道你还不明白－－那都是wu1xian4。	Don't you see it was all a frame-up!
更正	哦，对不起。允许我geng1zheng4一下，这件古董绝对是真的。	Oh, I'm sorry, but if I may correct you, this is absolutely real.
作废	废除使…zuo4fei4和无效	The act of making null and void.
乐谱	弹钢琴的人把yue4pu3忘了, 只好即兴伴奏.	The pianist forgot his music and had to improvise (the accompaniment).
渔民	yu2min2和水手有时声称看到过海里的妖怪。	Fishermen and sailors sometimes claim to have seen monsters in the sea.
开采	砂矿kai1cai3地一个用来清洗出有用矿物的砂矿kai1cai3地	A place where a placer deposit is washed to extract its mineral content.
惊动	别jing1dong4他，他睡着了。	Don't disturb him----he has flaked out.
请帖	她设法弄到了招待会的qing3tie3.	She managed to wangle an invitation to the reception.
意向	他了解人民的yi4xiang4。	He knew the pulse of the people.
慈祥	我母亲非常ci2xiang2。	My mother's character is very benign.
桨	jiang3喀吧一声断了.	The oar broke with a snap.
摘要	请替我把这份报告写一份zhai1yao4。	Please write me a summary of this report.
导向	dao3xiang4装置用作指向物或用来调整运动方向或运行的装置，如尺子、调整片或栅栏	A device, such as a ruler, tab, or bar, that serves as an indicator or acts to regulate a motion or operation.
世代	shi4dai4居住在城市里使他们磨练了才智。	Generations of urban living sharpened their wits.
盛行	偏执狂现象在妇女中很sheng4xing2，引起了许多婚姻纠纷。	Paranoia reigns supreme among the women, causing much marital conflict.
封建	君主，领主根据feng1jian4法律，应对之效忠和服役的长官或君主	A lord or sovereign to whom allegiance and service are due according to feudal law.
附件	信封内装有几份fu4jian4。	There are several enclosures in the envelope.
反问	我还没有告诉我的太太她买衣服花钱太多，她先下手为强fan3wen4我为什么花那么多钱去买新钓鱼竿。	Before I could tell my wife she had spent too much for the dress, she stole my thunder by asking why I spent so much for the new fishing rod.
挑拨	他企图tiao3bo1他们打架。	He tried to provoke them into fighting.
歌颂	诗人们赞颂国王，ge1song4他的英勇业绩。	Poets sang the king's praises; they sang of his brave deeds.
甭	如果我们不把价格压低，就beng2想拿到订单。	If we do not keep the price down, go bang our chance of get the order.
迟缓	很多队员渐渐变得动作chi2huan3了。这支队所需的是一些新鲜血液。	Many of the players are getting sluggish and what this team needs is some fresh blood.
毅然	他们最後yi4ran2决定结婚.	They have finally decided to take the plunge and get married.
确立	婚姻是大多数社会早已que4li4的制度。	Marriage is an institution in most societies.
次序	这些页数ci4xu4不对。	The pages aren't in proper order.
工艺品	这地方因出手gong1yi4pin3而出名。	The place is known for its handicraft products.
背诵	从头开始bei4song4这首诗.	Recite the poem (right) from the (very) beginning.
走漏	消息zou3lou4了。	The news leaked out.
恰到好处	鱼做得qia4dao4-hao3chu4。	The fish is done to a turn.
勾结	警察怀疑银行职员与强盗有gou1jie2。	The police suspected that the bank clerk was in league with the rubbers.
空隙	齿隙两齿之间的间隙或kong4xi4	A gap or space between two teeth.
周密	回答这个问题使她不得不做zhou1mi4的思考。	The answer to the question cost her much careful thought.
天文	他太穷了，买不起tian1wen2望远镜。	He was too poor to buy an astronomical telescope.
扎实	学习英语就象建房子，打下zha1shi5的基础是最基本也是最重要的一步。	Learning English is like building a house, laying a strong foundation is the first and most important step.
方针	现在改变fang1zhen1是不明智的.	It would be unwise to change tack now.
声势	向议员游说的反核群众sheng1shi4渐强。	The anti-nuclear lobby is becoming stronger.
偏差	偏度pian1cha1；一特定数量的pian1cha1	Deviation or a specified amount of deviation.
牵制	前来增援的装甲部队受到空袭的qian1zhi4。	Armour coming up in support was tied down by air strikes.
通货膨胀	政府决心把tong1huo4 peng2zhang4率降低。	The government is determined to bring down inflation.
萌芽	必须把一切恶感在发展成公开对抗之前，就消灭于meng2ya2状态之中。	Any ill-feeling has to be nipped in the bud before it develops into open revolt.
遏制	工资固定又无晋升机会e4zhi4了雇员的积极性.	Fixed wages and lack of promotion act as a disincentive to employees.
兴致勃勃	旅行中她始终xing4zhi4-bo2bo2。	She remained cheerful throughout the trip.
盛情	我们受到了sheng4qing2的款待.	We were royally entertained.
名次	这匹马在比赛中没有取得ming2ci4。	The horse finished up nowhere in the race.
饲养	我si4yang3了12只小鸡。	I had bred a dozen of chickens.
处分	他没受chu3fen4就过去了。	He was let off without punishment.
辽阔	liao2kuo4的平原绵延数百英里。	The vast plains stretch for hundreds of miles.
威信	他在群众中wei1xin4很高。	He has high prestige among the masses.
津津有味	他们开始jin1jin1 you3 wei4地大吃起来.	They fell to (eating) with great gusto.
告辞	我正在要gao4ci2了。	I am going to leave now.
化肥	磷肥含有磷化合物的一种hua4fei2	A fertilizer containing phosphorus compounds.
媒介	蚊子是疟疾的传播mei2jie4.	Mosquitoes are carriers of malaria.
提炼	这一新方法用于从页岩油里ti2lian4出石油。	The new process extracts oil from shale.
博览会	他去芝加哥的世界bo2lan3hui4去碰碰运气。	He went to Chicago to try his luck in the World's Fair.
呼啸	外面飓风hu1xiao4著.	The hurricane screamed outside.
朝代	建立一个chao2dai4	Erect a dynasty.
栽培	果树；果树zai1pei2者	Fruit trees; fruit growers.
绣	她把垫子xiu4上了花.	She embroidered the cushion with flowers.
固体	冰是水的gu4ti3状态。	Ice is water in solid state.
靠拢	军士长命令士兵kao4long3.	The sergeant-major ordered the men to close up.
自发	自燃的在空气中zi4fa1地燃烧的	Spontaneously igniting in air.
制约	物理学受宇宙法则的zhi4yue1.	Physics is governed by cosmic laws.
千方百计	她qian1fang1-bai3ji4想离开。	She made every attempt to go.
参谋	can1mou2人员在地图上把这个地区精确地标了出来。	The staff officers mapped out the area thoroughly.
雄伟	一座xiong2wei3的大桥横亘在大江之上。	A magnificent bridge spans the river.
开明	唐朝是一段以kai1ming2著称的时期。	The Tang Dynasty is a period remarkable for its liberality.
比重	假设已知一个物体的重量和bi3zhong4，我们就能算出它的体积。	Granted the weight and the specific gravity of a body, we can calculate its volume.
承包	他们有没有投标争取cheng2bao1合同？	Have they put in a bid for the contract?
鼓动	他讲的话是有意gu3dong4群众的.	His speech was calculated to stir up the crowd.
风气	伊丽莎白女王时代的英国流行feng1qi4	The genius of Elizabethan England.
外向	性格wai4xiang4的人喜欢高谈阔论, 而不愿思索人生的意义.	Extroverts prefer lively conversation to brooding on the meaning of life.
大体	到目前为止，主席只能提出个da4ti3规划，还不能很具体。	So far, the chairman has only been able to trace out the outline of the plan, without any details.
耐用	这种布料十分nai4yong4.	This cloth is designed to stand up to a lot of wear and tear.
蕴藏	台湾恐怕没有yun4cang2石油吧！	Taiwan seems to contain no petroleum.
攻克	经过长时间包围之后，这个小镇已被起义军gong1ke4。	After a prolonged siege, the town was rendered up to the insurgents.
周折	他在事业上经过一番zhou1zhe2，如今他又回到了最初工作的那家俱乐部。	His career have come full circle to the club where it begin.
茂盛	没有水植物就不会长得mao4sheng4。	Plants will not flourish without water.
谢绝	他提出护送她，但她xie4jue2了。	He offered to be her escort, but she declined it.
当务之急	我们dang1 wu4 zhi1 ji2是安抚死者的家属.	Our immediate concern is for/with the families of those who died.
杂交	这两种类型的狗可以za2jiao1繁殖.	These two types of dog can interbreed/be interbred (with each other).
解体	从尿布到尊严、又从尊严到jie3ti3，只不过是短短的一段岁月而已。	It is but a few short years from diaper to dignity and from dignity to decomposition.
田径	我喜欢观看tian2jing4比赛。	I like to watch field and track events.
运算	不严格地说，一种数学或逻辑yun4suan4符。	Loosely, a mathematical or logic operator.
狼吞虎咽	吃东西不要lang2tun1-hu3yan4.	Don't wolf down your food.
有条不紊	事务式的，有条理的显示或具有在生意方面有优越或有用特点的；you3tiao2-bu4wen3的和系统性的	Showing or having characteristics advantageous to or of use in business; methodical and systematic.
须知	旅客xu1zhi1要服用预防疟疾药.	Travellers are reminded that malaria tablets are advisable.
才干	公司需要多找些有你这种cai2gan4的人.	The firm needs more people of your calibre.
问世	她的新小说何时wen4shi4?	When is her new novel coming out?
铸造	zhu4zao4在硬币上的文字已经磨损.	The inscription on the coin had worn away.
论证	他lun4zheng4的要点是....	The burden of his argument was that...
会晤	我们做了非正式的hui4wu4。	We had an informal meeting.
自力更生	自给自足的不依靠别人的帮助、关心或资助的；zi4li4 geng1sheng1的	Not relying on others for support, care, or funds; self-supporting.
钻研	他在zuan1yan2生物学。	He is digging at biology.
投掷	他tou2zhi4很好.	He throws well.
寓言	yu4yan2家yu4yan2的创作者	A composer of fables.
雌雄	ci2-xiong2异株的在一个个体上产生雄性器官，而在另一同种的个体上产生雌性器官的	Having the male and female reproductive organs borne on separate individuals of the same species.
颁布	国王ban1bu4了一项命令。	The king promulgate a decree.
壮丽	zhuang4li4的山峰	Proud alpine peaks.
剪彩	国王和王后陛下今天将为新桥通车典礼jian3cai3。	Their Majesty will open the new bridge today.
灌溉	他们正用水guan4gai4土地。	They are irrigating with water.
学说	这两种xue2shuo1之间没有什麽关联.	There is a distant connection between the two theories.
挺拔	我赞美白杨树那ting3ba2的株干。	I eulogize the tall and straight trunk of the white poplar.
着重	哥特式小说zhuo2zhong4描写怪诞、恐怖和孤寂的小说	A novel in a style emphasizing the grotesque, mysterious, and desolate.
得不偿失	迪克一开始舍不得花钱去看医生，如果，他的心脏病日趋严重。这真是贪小失大，de2 bu4 chang2 shi1。	Dick's heart trouble became worse because he wouldn't spend money to see a doctor at the beginning; he was indeed penny wise and pound foolish.
共计	我们gong4ji420人.	We numbered 20 (ie There were 20 of us) in all.
崇敬	人们来到纪念馆chong2jing4地纪念这位伟大的领袖。	People came to the memorial to revere the memory of the great leader.
答辩	必须在7日内将da2bian4寄给法院和另一方当事人。	The defence must be sent to court and to the other party within seven days.
干旱	非洲南部的gan1han4高原	An arid plateau of southern Africa.
赤道	那里是chi4dao4气候。	There is an equatorial climate.
缴纳	不jiao3na4税款就可能被起诉.	Failureto pay your taxes will make you liable to prosecution.
杠杆	他把刀子当gang4gan3用.	He employed his knife as a lever.
自满	我们不能zi4man3, 必须继续努力改进.	There's no room for complacency; we must continue to try to improve.
见闻	一般认为出国旅游可增广jian4wen2。	It is generally thought that traveling abroad can enrich one's knowledge.
柴油	chai2you2潜艇在水下只能航行非常短的时间，而核潜艇在水下航行的时间要长得多。	A diesel submarine is able to cruise under water for a short period of time, but a nuclear one is able to cruise under water much longer.
请示	你不必向我qing3shi4可自行做些变动.	You don't need my say-so to change things.
吹捧	他们在议会中互相chui1peng3。	They clawed each other in Parliament.
固有	这使他产生了奇怪的、 基於人类gu4you3之本能的强烈欲望.	It aroused strange primeval yearnings in him.
停泊	渔船沿着岸抛锚ting2bo2。	Fishing boats were anchored all along the coast.
花蕾	蔬菜因其可食部分而种植的植物，如甜菜根、菠菜叶或者椰菜、花椰菜的hua1lei3等	A plant cultivated for an edible part, such as the root of the beet, the leaf of spinach, or the flower buds of broccoli or cauliflower.
恭敬	他恭gong1jing4敬地站在老师面前。	He was standing hat in hand before his teacher.
弊端	职权的bi4duan1	Abuse of power.
历来	这两国之间的边界问题li4lai2是争议的焦点.	The border has always been a bone of contention between these two countries.
赤字	税率低而政府支出大, 结果出现预算chi4zi4.	Tax was low and state spending was high, resulting in a budget deficit.
昌盛	这些墓地中发现的东西说明曾经有过一个chang1sheng4的母系社会。	The finds from these burial grounds point to the existence of a prosperous matriarchal society.
立交桥	新公路上将没有十字路口，而代之以过街桥和li4jiao1qiao2。	Cross-roads will not exist on these new highways, but will be replaced by bridges and flyovers.
悬殊	主队以xuan2shu1比分垂手赢得（这场比赛的）胜利.	The local team won (the match) hands down.
注释	这些zhu4shi4有助於弄清文中最难懂的部分。	The note help to elucidate the most difficult parts of the text.
贫乏	他的许多困难都是因为他的知识的pin2fa2而产生的。	His difficulties issue from his lack of knowledge.
熏陶	她一出生就受到天主教的xun1tao2.	She was born and bred a Catholic.
衔接	这两个接头xian2jie1得很好。	The two joints hang together pretty well.
陈列	chen2lie4的威士忌酒都是假的.	The bottles of whisky on display are all dummies.
列举	她lie4ju3她所要干的事情。	She listed all the thing she have to do.
职能	政府行使统治或管理zhi2neng2的机关、zhi2neng2部门或当局	The office, function, or authority of one who governs or of a governing body.
家喻户晓	这一产品非常成功, 其名称已经jia1yu4-hu4xiao3.	The product was so successful that its name became a household word.
落成	她渐渐出luo4cheng2美丽的姑娘。	She is growing into a beautiful young woman.
纺织	她未受fang3zhi1之训练。	She is unbred to spinning.
勘探	kan1tan4人员进入了一片沙漠地带。	The explorers entered upon a desert tract.
简要	盒上印有装配模型的jian3yao4说明.	Simple directions for assembling the model are printed on the box.
并列	英国队和意大利队bing4lie4第二.	Britain are tied with Italy for second place.
地势	那省的大部分地区di4shi4平坦。	Most of the province is as flat as a pancake.
举足轻重	自从上个赛季加入这个队以来，她就使人感到她是个ju3 zu2 qing1-zhong4的队员。	Since she joined the team last season she has made her presence felt.
络绎不绝	参观博物馆人们luo4yi4 bu4 jue2。	People went to visit the Museum on and on.
法人	这家公司关心它自身的fa3ren2形象。	This company is concerned about its corporate image.
成心	老天爷好像cheng2xin1捉弄人，很多人前来看比赛却偏偏下起瓢泼大雨。	Ironically, most people came to watch the match on the day it poured with rain.
征收	zheng1shou1zheng1shou1的行为或过程	The act or process of levying.
精打细算	我们jing1da3-xi4suan4就能买辆新汽车了.	If we budget carefully, we'll be able to afford a new car.
振兴	千方百计zhen4xing1渔业注定徒劳无功.	All attempts to revive the fishing industry were foredoomed to failure.
应邀	多谢邀请, 我们改日一定ying4yao1.	Thanks for the invitation; we may take you up on it some time.
陡峭	我们向着dou3qiao4山顶攀登。	We have a precipitous climb to the peak.
相等	他觉得他们和他地位xiang1deng3。	He feels that they are his equals.
刊物	他已阅读了论及他研究领域的当前的各种kan1wu4。	He's read all the current publications touching on his field of research.
及早	我们会把决定ji2zao3通知申请者。	Applicants will be notified of our decision in good season.
招收	这所学校每年zhao1shou1六十名男女新生.	The school admits sixty new boys and girls every year.
奠定	早年对军用火箭进行的实验为发展航天技术dian4ding4了基础。	Early experiments with military rockets prepared the ground for space travel.
误差	这种日历现在与季节基本保持一致，尽管每年仍有26秒钟的wu4cha1。	The calendar now nearly keeps in step with the season, although there is still on error of26 season, per year
一丝不苟	能工巧匠的特点是yi1 si1 bu4 gou3.	Attention to detail is the hallmark of a fine craftsman.
不像话	凌晨三点钟就打电话来, 太bu4 xiang4hua4了.	It's a bit much ringing me up at three o'clock in the morning.
筐	柳条常用来编kuang1。	Osier is used to make baskets.
旷课	你不应当kuang4ke4。	You should not be absent from class.
省会	福建中国东南部的一个省份，濒临东海和台湾海峡。经济以农业和渔业为主，sheng3hui4为福州。人口27，130，000	A province of southeast China on the East China Sea and the Formosa Strait. Agriculture and fishing are important to its economy. Fuzhou is the capital. Population, 27,130,000.
神态	她露出天真愉快的shen2tai4。	She shows a spontaneous gaiety of manner.
船舶	货物chuan2bo2、飞机或其它交通工具运载的货物	The freight carried by a ship, an aircraft, or another vehicle.
讥笑	他被他们ji1xiao4。	He is laughed at by them.
合算	本星期买胡萝卜和洋白菜最he2suan4，因货源充足，价格低廉。	Best buy of the week are carrot and cabbage, which are plentiful and cheap.
追悼	好几位国际知名人士出席了这位政治家的zhui1dao4仪式。	Several international celebrities are present at the statesman's memorial service.
边疆	bian1jiang1，边境位于或靠近边界的土地	Land located on or near a frontier.
棍棒	示威者用gun4bang4和各种投掷物攻击警察。	Demonstrators attacked the police, using sticks and assorted missiles.
谋求	他在千方百计mou2qiu2这份差使。	He is bucking for the job.
争先恐后	她的追求者几乎是zheng1xian1-kong3hou4向她献殷勤。	Her admirers almost fell over each other with offers of hospitality.
椭圆	镜子是tuo3yuan2的。	The mirror is oval.
操练	六点钟我们站好队准备cao1lian4。	At six we were fallen in for drill.
炊烟	chui1yan1暴露了敌人的存在。	The smoke from cooking betrayed the presence of the enemy.
实事求是	我们应该shi2 shi4 qiu2 shi4地先把费用算出来, 然後再做决定.	We must be practical and work out the cost before we make a decision.
派别	这个分裂出去的pai4bie2受到其他宗教团体的蔑视。	The break-away sect was contemned by other religious groups.
拟定	条文规定必须由律师ni3ding4此公文。	Regulations prescribe that a lawyer draw up the paper.
洽谈	她与我们qia4tan2成交後又翻悔了.	She welshed on (the bargain she made with) us.
次品	我不愿花这麽多钱买ci4pin3.	I grudge paying so much for such inferior goods.
珍稀	他终生献身于zhen1xi1动物的保护。	He's devoted his whole life to the protection of the rare animals.
循序渐进	我们的口号是: ｀要xun2xu4 jian4jin4, 不要剧烈变革.＇	Our watchword is: Evolution, not revolution'.
威望	从属的，下级的等级、权力或wei1wang4低的；附属的	Lower in rank, power, or authority; subordinate.
耸	她song3了song3肩膀.	She gave a shrug of her shoulders.
耕地	大雨过後有几片geng1di4被淹.	Several fields are under water after the heavy rain.
矿产	这里是个kuang4chan3丰富的地区。	This is an area rich in ore.
亭子	你不喜欢那座ting2zi5吗？	Do not you love that pavilion?
淡季	dan4ji4旅游机票较便宜。	Air fare is cheaper in the off- season.
短促	我们怎样才能延长duan3cu4的人生？	How can we endeavor to prolong the brevity of human life?
博大精深	先生的学问bo2da4-jing1shen1。	The teacher had both extensive knowledge and profound scholarship.
贬义	影射影射的事情，特别是巧妙地间接的，通常是bian3yi4的暗示	Something insinuated, especially an artfully indirect, often derogatory suggestion.
精益求精	尼任斯基对演技jing1 yi4 qiu2 jing1一丝不苟.	Nijinsky was unsparing in his demands for perfection.
气功	你对qi4gong1怎么看？	How do you feel about Qigong?
闭塞	他思想bi4se4僵化.	He has a closed mind.
丘陵	泰晤士河发源於科茨沃尔德qiu1ling2.	The Thames rises in the Cotswold Hills.
欣欣向荣	石油市场xin1xin1 xiang4 rong2。	The oil market is enjoying a boom.
逐年	他们相爱zhu2nian2加深.	Yearby year their affection for each other grew stronger.
完备	每次使用时，必须先使其中某些部分（诸如地址等）wan2bei4起来或详加规定才能运行的一组指令。	A set of instructions in which some parts such as addresses must be completed or specified in detail each time the set is used.
装卸	卡车非zhuang1xie4货物时不得在此停车。	Lorries may only park here when loading or unloading.
朝气蓬勃	在各条战线上都有精力充沛zhao1qi4-peng2bo2的青年人。	On every front there are young people abounding in vigor and vitality.
聚精会神	他冷静沉着，ju4jing1-hui4shen2地判断如何打败对手。	He was calm and concentrated in judging how to defeat his opponent.
稿件	旧稿要加上先前拷贝的原新闻的gao3jian4	Previous journalistic copy to which succeeding copy is added.
不相上下	我认为这两个选手bu4 xiang1 shang4-xia4。	I'd say the two players are pretty even.
连年	这个国家lian2nian2战争元气尽失後, 已开始慢慢恢复正常状态.	The country, prostrate after years of war, began slowly to recover.
历代	世代相传的li4dai4都出现的，li4dai4都有此特征的	Appearing in or characteristic of successive generations.
吞吞吐吐	问起他收入的来源, 他就有些tun1tun1tu3tu3.	He was a bit coy when asked about the source of his income.
肥沃	艾伯塔平原极其fei2wo4.	The plains of Alberta are extremely fertile.
宁肯	一些独居的男人ning4ken3靠罐头食品过日子，也不愿自己烧饭吃。	Some men on their own will live out of tins rather than cook meals for themselves.
难能可贵	我的秘书真是个nan2 neng2 ke3 gui4的人。	My secretary is an absolute gem.
磋商	会前cuo1shang1谈判之前进行的会谈或讨论	Conversation or discussion preliminary to negotiation.
出神	他并未喝醉，而是茫然chu1shen2。	He wasn't drunk, he was goofing off.
章程	董事长裁定该会议是违反zhang1cheng2的。	The chairman ruled that the meeting was unconstitutional.
查获	警察cha2huo4了大量的非法毒品。	Police found a large quantity of illegal drugs.
不由得	听了这话，他bu4you2de5笑了起来。	Hearing the words, he couldn't keep from laughing.
把关	难道你一定得ba3guan1得那么响吗？	Do you have to slam the door?
茎	他用剪子连花带jing1都剪下来。	He cut off the flowers at the stalk with a pair of scissors.
供不应求	开始gong1bu4ying4qiu2。	Demand began to exceed supply.
纲领	措词强烈的社论可以简单地归结为政党政治的gang1ling3	The scathing editorial simply boils down to an exercise in partisan politics.
搀	再chan1些白颜料使涂料浅些。	Mix some more white in to make the paint pal.
混浊	一滴奶在水中扩散开来, 使水变得hun4zhuo2不清了.	A drop of milk diffused in the water, and it became cloudy.
根深蒂固	我们社会中普遍存在著gen1shen1-di4gu4的保守思想.	There is a deep-seated conservatism running through our society.
炉灶	牛奶放在lu2zao4上的锅里热着。	The milk is warmed in a saucepan on the stove.
序言	他给这本日记写了xu4yan2，简述日记发现的经过。	He prefaced the diary with a short account of how they were discovered.
川流不息	参观者chuan1 liu2 bu4 xi1地向这所房子走来.	A procession of visitors came to the house.
挎	我膀子上kua4着两件衣服，活像一个卖旧货的。	I held two coats over my arm like a rag-and-bone merchant.
堤坝	di1ba4建成後水已加深.	The water deepened after the dam was built.
弊病	这是两种bi4bing4中较轻的。	This is the lesser evil of the two.
斩钉截铁	父亲不喜欢儿子在外夜宿不归，所以他zhan3ding1-jie2tie3地禁止他再那样做。	The father didn't like his son staying out at night, so he put his foot down and forbade him to do it again.
纪要	你必须学会做会议ji4yao4。	You must learn how to take minutes.
沾光	亲眼看见这一派兴旺繁荣景象的穷人们也开始想zhan1guang1发财了。	The poor, who can see this boom with their own eyes, are starting to want their share of the cake.
画蛇添足	对一个这样漂亮的女孩来说，化妆有些hua4 she2 tian1 zu2。	For such a beautiful girl, to use make-up would be to gild the lily.
砍伐	我们要减少kan3fa2的树的数量.	We are going to scale down the number of trees being felled.
稠密	chou2mi4的有相对较高的密度的	Having relatively high density.
布告	他在bu4gao4板上贴了一张公告。	He posted a bulletin on the board.
风土人情	这次旅行使我们了解了其他土地上的feng1tu3-ren2qing2。	The travel has acquainted us with the customs of other lands.
悬崖峭壁	那攀登者不得不紧扒着xuan2ya2-qiao4bi4。	The climber had to cling onto the cliff.
稻谷	秋收后，我们将获得大量dao4gu3。	After harvest we will have a mass of rice.
畜牧	xu4mu4主义以喂养或放牧家畜为基础的社会和经济系统	A social and economic system based on the raising and herding of livestock.
成就	我们应该学习祖先的cheng2jiu4。	We should study our ancestral achievements.
下载	曾有两位年轻人非法侵入了大学网络，创建了一个公告牌，并在上面装入了流行的商业软件，还邀请因特网上的用户xia4zai3这些软件包。	Once two lads broke into the university network, created a bulletin board, loaded popular commercial software on it and invited users across Internet to download the packages.
体验	他虽有ti3yan4却无长进.	He hasn't benefited from (ie become wiser with) the experience.
正	这对我zheng4合适。	That suits me all right.
所	她在一suo3中学学习。	She studies in a high school.
推荐	我tui1jian4她代表我们出席会议。	I nominate her to present us at the meeting.
搞	她一辈子gao3戏剧。	She is been in the theater all her life.
杀	因为宿怨，他最终sha1了她。	He eventually killed her because of a long-standing feud.
参与	我很想can1yu4这项计画.	I'd like to be in on the scheme.
人生	ren2sheng1幸福易逝。	Human happiness is so fragile.
如何	出去吃晚餐ru2he2？	How about going out for dinner?
宝贝	她是小bao3bei4!	She's a little darling!
居然	他ju1ran2有脸要求赔偿。	He had the gall to sue for damages.
套	这tao4红木家具一定非常昂贵。	This set of mahogany furniture must be very expensive.
系	他毕业于历史xi4。	He graduated from History Department.
拍	pai1那只苍蝇.	Give that fly a swat.
祝福	教皇向人群zhu4fu2.	The Pope blessed the crowd.
挑战	我向他tiao3zhan4进行决斗。	I challenge him to a duel.
主题	讲课时不要岔开（zhu3ti2）.	Don't digress (from the subject) when lecturing.
反正	我想他fan3zheng4会以养家为理由来进行辩解。	I suppose that, in justification, he could always claim he had a family to support.
首	这shou3歌曲的曲调悲伤。	The song has plaintive melody.
兄弟	约翰和彼得是xiong1di4。	John and Peter are brothers.
抢	人们qiang3著购买股票.	People rushed to buy the shares.
收获	在shou1huo4季节里农民非常忙碌.	Farmers are very busy during (the) harvest.
某	你属于mou3个工会吗？	Do you belong to a union?
根本	这gen1ben3没什么关系。	It doesn't matter at all.
靠	他kao4写小说维生。	He earned his bread by writing novels.
枪	他伸手去拿qiang1.	He reached for his gun.
日子	ri4zi5不好过啊。	Pretty tough day to day.
传说	这个东方chuan2shuo1很吸引人。	This oriental legend is fascinating.
曾经	我们ceng2jing1住在伦敦。	Once we lived in London.
片	她的卧室里满是画pian4。	Her bedroom is covered with posters.
位置	他们标明每艘船的新wei4zhi5。	They plotted the new position of each vessel.
或许	你huo4xu3能帮我—个忙吧?	You might do me a favor?
英雄	他绝不是一个ying1xiong2。	He was anything but a hero.
期待	我们正qi1dai4着她的来信。	We are expecting a letter from her.
连续	在我们左翼有lian2xu4的射击.	There was continous firing to our left.
失去	我的双腿完全shi1qu4了知觉.	I've lost all feeling in my legs.
哈	ha1唯发现了血液循环。	Harvey discovered the circulation of the blood.
唯一	甜食是我wei2yi1的嗜好。	Sweets are my only indulgence.
绝对	那jue2dui4不要紧.	It doesn't matter in the least.
确定	没有que4ding4窃贼身分的线索.	There is no clue to the identity of the thief.
赶紧	我gan3jin3到售票处。	I hurried to the ticket-office.
未来	他对wei4lai2感到悲观。	He is pessimistic about the future.
抓	猫用爪子互相zhua1.	The cats clawed at each other.
精神	这好消息使我jing1shen5大振。	The good news lifted my spirits.
随时	欢迎你sui2shi2到我们家。	You are always welcome to our house.
痛苦	她发出tong4ku3的呼叫.	She emitted a cry of pain.
装	一篮一篮子所zhuang1的量	The amount that a basket can hold.
整个	zheng3ge4早上都是阴天。	It's been cloudy all morning.
血	伤口仍在渗xue4。	Blood was still oozing from the wound.
寻找	我一直在四处xun2zhao3它。	I have been seeking it all round.
完美	这些音乐家作了一场绝对wan2mei3的演出。	These musicians gave an absolutely faultless performance.
明星	据说该ming2xing1病重.	The star is reportedly very ill.
老婆	在比尔家里，真正当家的是她的lao3po5。	It's Bill's wife who really rules the roost in that family.
表现	她处处biao3xian4得极为阔气.	She gave every appearance of being extremely rich.
傻	【谚】sha3子有sha3福。	Fortune favours fools.
呆	大雨迫使我们dai1在户内。	The heavy rain compelled us to stay indoors.
行动	xing2dong4胜于空谈。	Actions speak louder than words.
梦想	他的meng4xiang3实现了。	His dream came true.
疯狂	我出去feng1kuang2地购物。	I went out on a shopping spree.
家庭	我妈妈是个jia1ting2妇女。	My mother is a housewife.
作为	渔夫用矛zuo4wei2武器。	The fisher used a spear as his weapon.
伤害	她不想shang1hai4孩子的感情。	She hesitated to hurt the child's feelings.
猪	zhu1是一种家畜。	A pig is a domestic animal.
秘密	mi4mi4地；偷偷地	In secret; stealthily.
幸运	我向他们祝愿xing4yun4	I wish them luck.
保持	最好bao3chi2冷静。	The best thing is to keep cool.
享受	我坐在庭院里xiang3shou4明媚的阳光。	I was sitting in the garden enjoying the sunshine.
方式	他按照通常的fang1shi4讲话.	His speech followed the usual pattern.
失眠	我夜里经常shi1mian2.	I can't sleep nights.
处理	我有要事要chu3li3。	I have a matter of importance to deal with.
控制	kong4zhi4逐渐加强.	Controls have gradually tightened.
颗	牙医给我镶了ke1假牙。	I was fitted an artificial tooth by the dentist.
目标	超过mu4biao1或定额的	Surpassing a goal or quota.
成长	风把雪吹积cheng2zhang3埂, 堵塞了道路.	The wind drifted the snow into a high bank, blocking the road.
面对	我们必须mian4dui4现实。	We must face reality.
等待	我们deng3dai4着消息，越来越着急。	We waited for news with a growing sense of anxiety.
代表	罗马教皇的使节或dai4biao3	A papal ambassador or representative.
自由	zi4you2是我们与生俱来的权利	Freedom is our birthright.
偷	我不会堕落到去tou1钱。	I wouldn't stoop to stealing money.
空间	这里有很大的活动kong1jian1。	There is plenty of space here to move about.
鞭炮	中国孩子会在春节前买很多bian1pao4。	Chinese children like to buy many firecrackers before the Spring Festival.
个人	我ge4ren2还是赞成炸香肠。	I personally vote for fried sausage.
发表	他fa1biao3了不少文章。	He has published quite a lot of articles.
老板	她与lao3ban3私奔了.	She ran away with her boss/She and her boss ran away (together).
唉	ai1，恐怕只能如此了。	Well, I think it will have to do.
温暖	她迁往气候较wen1nuan3的地方.	She moved to a warmer climate.
事实	shi4shi2决不能否认。	There is no denying the fact.
属于	你shu3yu2哪一党派？	What party do you belong to?
简直	那顿饭jian3zhi2好极了。	That meal was simply divine!
对方	我没有理睬dui4fang1的嘲笑。	I ignored the taunts of the opposition.
感受	她和他的gan3shou4相同。	She felt just the same as he did.
派	已pai4士兵去镇压动乱.	Soldiers were sent in to quell the riots.
青春	人生的初期；qing1chun1	The springtime of life; youth.
超级	明年将要修建一条chao1ji2高速公路。	A superhighway will be constructed next year.
设计	这件衣服是最新she4ji4。	This dress is of the latest design.
存在	贫富的鸿沟始终cun2zai4。	There is always a vast chasm between rich and poor.
经典	这本小说很可能成为jing1dian3著作.	This novel may well become a classic.
不断	他整夜bu4duan4呻吟.	He was moaning (away) all night long.
记录	他有长期犯罪ji4lu4。	He has a long criminal record.
中心	社论的zhong1xin1内容	The meat of the editorial.
克	卢·格里ke4打一垒	Lou Gehrig played first base.
系统	排水xi4tong3已经老化了。	The drainage system has been aged.
报告	马上bao4gao4校长!	Report to the Head immediately!
姑娘	她是个刁滑的gu1niang5.	She's a sly puss.
功能	这一程序有哪些gong1neng2?	What functions can this program perform?
群	他们是一qun2笨蛋.	They're a load of morons.
以及	她显然丝毫也不顾及别人yi3ji2别人的感情.	She shows a total disregard for other people and their feelings.
身份	女王授予他爵士shen1fen5。	The queen conferred a knighthood on him.
现实	他的计划迅速变为xian4shi2。	His plans were transformed overnight into reality.
人类	ren2lei4经数千年才文明开化.	The civilization of mankind has taken thousands of years.
理由	让我解释迟到的li3you2。	Let me explain why I was late.
意义	这些话毫无yi4yi4。	These words are empty of meaning.
直	他气得zhi2跺脚.	He stamped (his foot) in anger.
总统	谁将获得zong3tong3提名？	Who will get the nomination for president?
微笑	她脸上露出愉快的wei1xiao4。	There is a merry smile on her face.
冲	别chong1我嚷嚷。	Don't shout at me.
真实	你说的有几分是zhen1shi2的。	What you say is partly true.
糟糕	太zao1gao1了。	That's too bad.
力量	女人li4liang5不及男人。	Woman is inferior to man in strength.
想象	那是我xiang3xiang4不到的。	That's beyond the reach of my imagination.
酒吧	jiu3ba1对外营业.	The bar is open to non-residents.
表情	他biao3qing2严肃地望着她。	He looked at her with a solemn expression.
组	那两zu3交通灯不同步。	The two sets of traffic lights were out of phase.
的确	批改试卷di2que4是个苦事。	Marking examination papers is a real grind.
承认	我得cheng2ren4我已忘了。	I must admit (that) I have forgot.
心理	他研究犯罪xin1li3有多年经验.	He has many years' experience of the criminal mentality.
可怕	他被那ke3pa4的景象吓呆了.	He stood aghast at the terrible sight.
亮	这灯泡不liang4了.	This light bulb has gone.
寂寞	我的狗不在旁边我就很ji4mo4。	I feel very lonely without my dog.
则	金属遇热ze2膨胀。	Metals expand when they are heated.
神秘	魔法师非常shen2mi4。	The enchanter is very mysterious.
食物	shi2wu4中有一些杂质。	There are some impurities in food.
状态	竞技zhuang4tai4极佳的运动员	An athlete in excellent shape.
顶	他用肩膀用力ding3那房门.	He pushed hard against the door with his shoulder.
吓	枪声把马xia4惊了.	The horse bolted in terror at the sound of the gun.
珍惜	我zhen1xi1你的友谊。	I treasure your friendship.
滚	球从桌上gun3下来。	Off the table rolled the ball.
记忆	我的ji4yi4靠不住。	My memory is treacherous.
支	他点燃了一zhi1蜡烛。	He lit up a wax candle.
胜利	我坚信我们最后会sheng4li4。	I fervently believe in our eventual victory.
明显	很ming2xian3，他是罪犯。	It's plain that he is the criminal.
晒	我们让太阳shai4熟了.	We are baking in the sun.
消失	欢呼声在逐渐xiao1shi1。	The sound of the cheering faded away.
必要	这真的没有bi4yao4。	That's really not necessary.
证据	指控他的zheng4ju4不足信。	The evidence against him was flimsy.
时代	文学是shi2dai4的镜子。	Literature is a mirror of its time.
瞧	qiao2我们的庄稼长得多快。	Look how our plants have shot up.
充满	他的歌chong1man3了忧伤。	His songs are full of dirge.
政府	zheng4fu3决定紧缩通货.	The Government decided to deflate.
堆	街道上垃圾成dui1。	There were piles of litter in the streets.
依然	越狱犯yi1ran2在逃.	The escaped prisoner is still at large.
分手	我希望我们和和气气地fen1shou3。	I hope we can part as friends.
似乎	他si4hu1不愿离去。	He seemed somewhat loath to depart.
翻	你在我抽屉里乱fan1什么？	What are you burrowing around in my drawer for?
情绪	他qing2xu4激动。	He got an inflammation of passion.
不然	快跑，bu4ran2你要迟到了。	Run or else you'll be late.
背	我的bei4疼得要命。	My back is killing me.
顿	他一连4dun4没有吃上饭。	He missed four meals in succession.
时尚	短暂的shi2shang4：流行一时的狂热	A short-lived popular fashion; a fad.
根	这gen1梁厚3英寸。	The beam has a thickness of 3 inches.
战争	zhan4zheng1是一场大屠杀。	War is mass murder.
太太	布郎tai4tai5以好客闻名。	Mrs Brown is known for her hospitality.
目前	mu4qian2生意萧条不振。	Business is slack just now.
行为	恶毒或卑劣的xing2wei2	A spiteful or malicious act.
断	我的鞋底都duan4了。	The soles of my shoes are broken.
遗憾	听到这个消息我感到很yi2han4。	I'm sorry to hear that.
碰	他用剑柄peng4伤她了。	He hurts her with the hilt.
阻止	他一定千方百计zu3zhi3你.	He'll use any trick in the book to stop you.
数	以无穷shu4乘y.	Multiply y by infinity.
彼此	他们bi3ci3极不和.	They don't get on at all well together/with one another.
吻	她在姑姑的脸颊上匆匆wen3了一下。	She gave her aunt a quick peck on the cheek.
实现	她努力要shi2xian4她的理想。	She tries up to live up to her ideals.
时刻	圣诞节应是欢乐的shi2ke4.	Christmas should be a time of great cheer.
婚礼	我们决定把hun1li3推迟到明年。	We decided to delay our wedding until next year.
除非	喝一杯茶吧－－chu2fei1你想喝冷饮。	Have a cup of tea unless you'd prefer a cold drink.
信任	我们认为他值得xin4ren4。	We esteem him to be worthy of trust.
坚强	他是个jian1qiang2而沉默的人。	He is the strong, silent type.
除夕	chu2xi1之夜，各条大街一片灯火辉煌。	On New Year's eve, every main street was a blaze of light.
组织	军队是极其复杂的zu3zhi1。	The army is an extremely complex organism.
年代	寿命存在时间长短；nian2dai4	Length of existence; age.
吐	这些蚕的tu3丝量很大.	The silkworms are producing well.
冠军	他曾是世界网球guan4jun1。	He was the world tennis champion.
治疗	经过zhi4liao2他尚未痊愈。	He is in a bad way after treatment.
合作	她和姐姐he2zuo4写父亲的传记.	She collaborated with her sister/She and her sister collaborated on a biography of their father.
吵	这间办公室里非常chao3。	It's very noisy in this office.
果然	他说他会来的，guo3ran2来了。	He said he would come, and sure enough he did.
娶	我打算qu3她。	I'm going to marry her.
网络	你可以接通全国计算机wang3luo4。	You can plug into the national computer network.
人员	她是个优秀的管理ren2yuan2.	She's an excellent administrator.
受伤	他的双臂和双腿严重shou4shang1。	He suffered serious injuries to the arms and legs.
骂	她ma4他说谎。	She reproved him for telling lies.
价值	这些发现毫无jia4zhi2。	These discoveries are not worth the candle.
分析	把这句子的各个成分加以fen1xi1.	Analyse the sentence into its constituent parts.
利用	你应该好好li4yong4这个机会。	You should take advantage of it.
答应	我当然不da1ying5!	I certainly will not!
满足	要man3zu2每一个人绝非易事。	It is by no means easy to satisfy everyone.
意外	这真是个yi4wai4的惊喜！	What an unexpected pleasure!
成熟	我的计划逐渐cheng2shu2。	My plan has gradually come to maturity.
愿望	充分利用自然资源的yuan4wang4终究会实现。	The wish of fully utilizing the natural resources will eventually come true.
如今	ru2jin1，银行业面临许多竞争。	Banking faces much competition nowadays.
一旦	yi1dan4下了决心，他就毫不动摇。	Once he's made up his mind, he never budges.
手术	shou3shu4不能延缓。	The operation cannot wait.
赶快	我要gan3kuai4去市场。	I will hie to the market.
市场	目前的shi4chang3相当萧条。	The market is rather depressed at the moment.
立即	他们要求li4ji2付款。	They demand prompt payment.
黄金	huang2jin1埋藏於地下深处.	The gold lies deep in the earth.
撞	他们使劲把门zhuang4破.	They rammed the door to smash it down.
烂	苹果中好几个lan4了。	Several of the apples are bad.
反应	酸与碱fan3ying4生成盐。	Acids react with bases to form salts.
伟大	我的心赞美上主的wei3da4.	My soul doth magnify the Lord.
婚姻	hun1yin1是终身大事。	Marriage is for life.
领导	她缺乏ling3dao3才能。	She lacks leadership.
作品	我看不上他的zuo4pin3。	I disparage his work.
彻底	壁垒被che4di3摧毁了。	The rampart was destroyed totally.
移动	镜头慢慢yi2dong4拍摄房间全景.	The shot panned slowly across the room.
项	实行一xiang4新政策	Carry out a new policy.
圈	她对著镜子转了一quan1.	She did a twirl in front of the mirror.
公寓	我们这套gong1yu4的租约下月到期.	Our present lease on the flat expires next month.
角色	谁扮演哈姆雷特（这个jue2se4）?	Who is acting (the part of) Hamlet?
臭	那条鱼腐烂得发chou4了.	That rotten fish stinks.
风格	她以简练的feng1ge2写小说。	She writes novels with economical style.
呼吸	鱼通过鳃hu1xi1。	A fish breathes through its gills.
喊	导演han3了一声: 停!	The director shouted `Cut!'
勇气	他们的yong3qi4慢慢消失。	Their courage oozed away.
包括	以上各点均bao1kuo4在建议中.	The foregoing have all been included in the proposals.
人物	他是一位非常重要的ren2wu4。	He is a man of great importance.
表达	我们用词句来biao3da2思想。	We express our thought by means of words.
运气	他的成功主要靠yun4qi4。	His successes were largely due to luck.
模特	画家要求mo2te4取斜倚着的姿势。	The artist asked his model to take a reclining posture.
自从	zi4cong2他是小孩时，他就喜欢狗。	He has liked dogs since he was a child.
俱乐部	他被控告挪用ju4le4bu4基金.	He was accused of appropriating club funds.
嫁	她jia4给了一个有钱人。	She married money.
命运	ming4yun4把我们连在一起了.	Destiny drew us together.
拥抱	我们互相yong1bao4。	We embraced each other.
相当	湖面xiang1dang1平静。	The surface of the lake is quite still.
显然	xian3ran2他在撒谎.	It was patently obvious that he was lying.
出色	东道主队在6局中的击球打得十分chu1se4。	The home team were very good at the bat for six innings.
欣赏	我们xin1shang3大自然的美。	We enjoyed the beauty of nature.
问候	他要我wen4hou4你。	He asked me to inquire after you.
基本	ji1ben3特征；本性	Basic character; mettle.
资料	zi1liao4应该明白易懂。	The information ought to be made more accessible.
创造	她想chuang4zao4跳高世界纪录.	She's going for the world record in the high jump.
刺激	酸能ci4ji1胃黏膜.	Acid irritates the stomach lining.
训练	我受过些烹饪xun4lian4。	I've had some training in cooking.
风景	feng1jing3被发电厂破坏了。	This landscape is disfigured by a power station.
诗	他自称是shi1人。	He professed himself to be a poet.
灰	hui1狗跑得很快。	Greyhound can run very fast.
恢复	手术后他hui1fu4了健康。	He regained his health after the operation.
欠	没有关系，你qian4我了!	That's OK, you owe me one!
怀念	他因品质高尚而被人huai2nian4。	He is remembered for the nobility of his character.
碎	这杯子sui4了。	The glass shattered.
娱乐	这个中心提供各种yu2le4活动设施。	The center provides facilities for a whole range of leisure activities.
造成	干旱zao4cheng2农作物歉收。	The crops failed because of the drought.
报道	电视上对这件事bao4dao4很少。	The television coverage of the event was rather sparse.
朝	石块chao2四面八方乱飞。	Stones were flying about in every direction.
想念	我非常xiang3nian4你。	I miss you very much.
达到	一月份生产率da2dao4最高点。	Productivity peaked in January.
吹	号手chui1响了冲锋号	The bugler sounded the charge.
显示	他xian3shi4出领导才能。	He shows quality of leadership.
挡	这个炉具有几个温度定位dang3。	The cooker has several temperature settings.
产品	他讨厌日本的chan3pin3。	He has a bias against Japanese products.
威胁	他语气中带有wei1xie2的口吻。	A tone of menace entered into his voice.
文件	谁翻过我的wen2jian4了？	Who's been rooting about among my papers?
逃	那鹿tao2入了丛林深处。	The deer escaped to the deep forest.
数据	她键入了所有的新shu4ju4。	She keyed in all the new data.
公主	从前有一个gong1zhu3.	Once upon a time there was a princess.
魅力	他被玛丽的mei4li4迷惑, 对她苦缠不休。	He was smitten with Mary's attractions and laid siege to her heart.
追求	你在zhui1qiu2什么?	What are you going after?
公平	对学生而言, 这并不gong1ping2。	It is not fair on students' part.
导致	吸烟会dao3zhi4肺癌吗?	Does smoking contribute to lung cancer?
墙	qiang2上有条裂缝。	There is a fissure on the wall.
炒	我用普通油还是黄油来chao3洋葱呢?	Shall I use oil or butter for frying the onions?
脑袋	他摔著了nao3dai5.	He fell and hit his head.
命令	护士执行医生的ming4ling4。	The nurse executed the doctor's orders.
在于	该计划的妙处zai4yu2简洁明了。	The beauty of the plan consists in its simplicity.
锁	他把钥匙插入suo3里转动。	He put the key in the lock and turned it.
凭	信用证ping2汇票付款。	L/c is payable against your draft.
到达	他昨天dao4da2的。	He arrived yesterday.
奋斗	他努力追求自己的fen4dou4目标.	He pursues his aims with diligence.
信号	红旗是危险的xin4hao4。	A red flag is a sign of danger.
石头	他向湖里扔了一块shi2tou5。	He threw a stone into the lake.
切	他用一把钝刀子qie4肉。	He cut the meat with a blunt knife.
破坏	是不是儿童都喜欢po4huai4?	Are all small children so destructive?
思考	动物能si1kao3吗?	Are animals able to think?
道理	你说的话没有dao4li5.	What you say makes no sense.
以来	他生病yi3lai2胃口就不大好。	He's been a bit off his oats since his illness.
接近	船已jie1jin4陆地.	The ship was nearing land.
私人	河的那边是si1ren2的土地。	Over the river is private land.
产生	他们的会谈chan3sheng1了什么结果?	What results emerged from their talks?
王子	wang2zi3自始至终忠贞不渝。	The prince remained loyal throughout.
幻想	儿童都很富於huan4xiang3.	Children are very fanciful.
取消	菜单上已把鱼qu3xiao1了.	Fish has been taken off the menu.
天空	探照灯扫过tian1kong1。	Searching lights traversed the sky.
丑	我觉得它并不chou3, 恰恰相反, 它挺美.	It doesn't seem ugly to me; on the contrary, I think it's rather beautiful.
玩具	我女儿有很多wan2ju4。	My daughter has many toys.
升	水sheng1到我的颈部.	The water came up to my neck.
专家	她是个真正的zhuan1jia1。	She is a real professional.
员工	办事处的气氛已紧张一段时日，而最近解雇yuan2gong1一事使事态的发展达到了顶点。	The atmosphere in the office has been tense for some time but this latest dismissal brings matter to a head.
立刻	我必须li4ke4开始工作。	I must start working at once.
通常	我tong1chang2醒得很早。	I usually wake up early.
项目	所有xiang4mu4都已核对过了。	All these items have been checked up.
怀孕	他使女朋友huai2yun4了.	He got his girl-friend into trouble.
冻	软dong4是一种甜食。	Custard is a kind of sweet sauce.
胃	他wei4不舒服。	He has an upset stomach.
假装	他jia3zhuang1在爬山。	He was pretending to climb a mountain.
部门	是谁泄漏了bu4men2重组的细节?	Who let out the details of the reshuffle in the department?
投资	现在是tou2zi1的最佳时机.	The best time to invest is now.
温柔	乔安娜性格wen1rou2而腼腆。	Joanna had a gentle retiring disposition.
承受	我不能cheng2shou4和她分别。	I could not stand parting from her.
摆	窗口bai3了一些书。	There was an arrangement of books in the window.
敌人	di2ren2被歼灭了.	The enemy was annihilated.
地区	他住在东部海岸di4qu1.	He lives on the east coast.
状况	使人发狂的官僚主义的混乱zhuang4kuang4	Maddening bureaucratic mix-ups.
安慰	母亲死后，我收到许多an1wei4信。	I got many letters of consolation when my mother died.
重复	他chong2fu4了几遍直到记住为止.	He repeated it several times over (ie again and again) until he could remember it.
感激	确实非常gan3ji1您!	Thank you very much indeed!
广场	他住在罗素guang3chang395号.	He lives at No 95 Russell Square/Sq.
离婚	她提出了li2hun1申请。	She filed a petition for divorce.
思想	学生们都被他的si1xiang3吸引住了。	The students were fascinated by his ideas.
制作	橡木是zhi4zuo4家具的好材料.	Oak is a good type of wood for making furniture.
对待	尽量更客观地dui4dai4此事吧。	Try to be more objective about it.
庆祝	他们兴高采烈地qing4zhu4胜利。	They celebrated their victory cheerily.
智慧	头大是不是表示zhi4hui4高？	Is a large head indicative of high intelligence?
气氛	开会时qi4fen1显得有些兴奋。	There was an air of excitement at the meeting.
组合	一种包含三个实体的zu3he2。	A group containing three entities.
期间	新年qi1jian1我去看你.	I'll see you in the new year.
冒险	许多男孩都渴望mao4xian3。	Many boys have a thirst for adventure.
沉默	chen2mo4不能总理解为同意。	Silence must not always be read as consent.
心脏	她的xin1zang4还在跳动。	Her heart was still beating.
老鼠	猫捉lao3shu3是本能。	It is natural for a cat to catch mice.
尽量	jin3liang4避免人身攻击.	Try to avoid making personal comments.
权利	要求承认某些quan2li4.	There is a call for the concession of certain rights.
传统	他们决定要打破chuan2tong3.	They decided to break with (ie not observe) tradition.
个性	他是个有ge4xing4的人。	He is a man of individuality.
对象	他是施舍的适当dui4xiang4。	He is a proper object of charity.
抱怨	她大喊大叫地bao4yuan4房租太高.	She's kicking up an awful fuss about the high rent.
话题	我们换个hua4ti2吧。	Suppose we change the subject.
资源	政府试图阻止zi1yuan2的减少。	The government tried to prevent the diminution of resources.
主人	我是这所房子的zhu3ren2。	I am the owner of this house.
团	他是那个tuan2的耻辱。	He was a dishonor to his regiment.
摸	这mo1起来像丝绒。	It feels like velvet.
无所谓	我带你出去用餐, 花费多少都wu2suo3wei4.	I'm going to take you out to dinner, no expense spared.
度过	他在乡间du4guo4晚年。	He spent his declining years in the country.
狮子	这shi1zi5吼叫。	The lion roars.
吵架	我理论，而不是和他chao3jia4。	I reasoned rather than quarreled with him.
单位	家庭是社会最小的dan1wei4。	The family is the smallest social unit.
确认	我要再que4ren4我的预约。	I'd like to reconfirm my reservation.
奇迹	这确实是个qi2ji4.	It was in truth a miracle.
规则	他的脉搏不很gui1ze2。	His pulse is not very regular.
强烈	军队遇到qiang2lie4的抵抗。	The forces met with strong opposition.
媒体	新闻界收集，出版，传播或播送新闻的mei2ti3和机构的总称	The entirety of media and agencies that collect, publish, transmit, or broadcast the news.
硬	梗草各种草的ying4花梗	The stiff stalk of various grasses.
不如	与其给折扣，bu4ru2减价。	Better reduce the price than allow a discount.
自动	超级市场的门是zi4dong4关的.	The supermarket doors shut automatically.
盖	瓶gai4没拧正。	The bottle-top has been screwed on squint.
紧急	情况jin3ji2时请按铃。	Ring the bell in an emergency.
政治	zheng4zhi4问题容易引起争论。	Politics can be an explosive subject.
企业	他着手创办新qi3ye4。	He embarked on a new enterprise.
插	用叉子cha1土豆.	Stick the fork into the potato.
教练	驾驶jiao4lian4让我在邮局停车。	The driving instructor told me to pull up at the post office.
持续	审讯chi2xu4了一个星期.	The trial lasted a week.
细节	协议的xi4jie2尚未公布。	The full details of the agreement haven't been made public.
踩	【谚】人倒众人cai3。	If a man once fall, all will tread on him.
特殊	你们接受te4shu1订货吗？	Do you take special order?
集中	请ji2zhong1考虑以下问题.	Please focus your minds on the following problem.
程度	他们争吵到打架的cheng2du4。	They argued to the point of fighting with each other.
国王	guo2wang2勃然大怒。	The king went wroth.
独立	以丧失du2li4来换取和平是极高的代价.	Loss of independencewas a high price to pay for peace.
据说	ju4shuo1我们的祖先是猴子。	It is said that our progenitors are monkeys.
从此	大多数中国人认为他将cong2ci3不受欢迎。	Most Chinese think he will be therefrom unwelcome.
实话	我毫无保留地认为他说的是shi2hua4。	I accepted without reservation what he had said as true.
机器	这台ji1qi4日夜运转.	This machine operates night and day.
年纪	当我像你这样nian2ji4时...	When I was your age...
接触	桌子jie1chu4墙壁的地方漆皮已剥落。	The paint has chipped off where the table touches the wall.
列车	lie4che1马上要开了。	The train will leave in a second.
武术	她的wu3shu4练到家了。	She is expert at Chinese boxing.
宣布	总统xuan1bu4了议会解散。	The President announced the dissolution of Parliament.
制造	这块地毯是波斯zhi4zao4的。	This carpet was made in Persia.
善良	我丈夫是一个shan4liang2的人。	My husband is a kind person.
无数	我告诉她wu2shu4次了.	I've told her countless times.
相处	我觉得她非常冷淡, 不好xiang1chu3.	I find her very aloof and unfriendly.
和平	终于宣告he2ping2。	Peace was declared at last.
玻璃	这个bo1li5盘子很容易碎。	This glass plate is very fragile.
工具	园艺需要些什么gong1ju4？	What implements are needed for gardening?
尽力	努力，jin4li4，出力	Exert oneself to do sth.
洞	酸把地毯烧了个dong4。	The acid burnt a hole in the carpet.
平静	我们喜欢乡村的ping2jing4。	We enjoyed the quietness of the country.
保险	不系bao3xian3带开车就太傻了。	It's silly to drive without fastening one's seat belt.
士兵	shi4bing1们被迫投降。	The soldiers had to yield.
避免	她垂下双目以bi4mian3对视。	She cast her eyes down to avoid direct eye contact.
进步	他的英语有jin4bu4。	He is forward in his English.
闯	孩子们到处乱chuang3.	The children were rushing about.
对手	他猛击dui4shou3的身体.	He punished his opponent with fierce punches to the body.
脖子	长颈鹿的bo2zi5很长.	Giraffes have long necks.
软件	我的计算机里有很多ruan3jian4。	There are many sorts of software in my computer.
形象	漏斗状物外xing2xiang4漏斗的物体	Something resembling this utensil in shape.
建筑	这座jian4zhu4的外观像监狱.	The building was like a prison in appearance.
尽快	我希望这件事jin3kuai4做好.	I want it (to be) done as quickly as possible.
纪念	我有一枚有ji4nian4意义的铜牌。	I have a monumental brass medal.
角度	从投资的jiao3du4来考虑那件事.	Think of it in terms of an investment.
戒指	这只jie4zhi5只是镀金的而已。	The ring was only plated with gold.
屋子	wu1zi5里充满阳光。	The room is full of sunshine.
占	发言共zhan4去三小时.	The speeches occupied three hours.
倒霉	dao3mei2死了!	What deuced bad luck!
始终	情况shi3zhong1都在变化。	Conditions are changing all the time.
主动	zhu3dong4权已转到我方.	The initiative has passed to us.
假如	jia3ru2我要做新衣服，需要很多布料。	I need a lot of cloth if I want to make a new dress.
轻易	她做任何事都不qing1yi4放弃.	She doesn't give up easily.
建立	他已jian4li4起自己的公司。	He has established his own firm.
忽然	那男孩hu1ran2哭了起来。	The boy began crying all of a sudden.
借口	谁也不会相信那个jie4kou3.	No one will buy that excuse.
争取	她zheng1qu3获得奖学金.	She's aiming at (ie trying to win) a scholarship.
稳定	物价渐趋wen3ding4.	Prices are steadying.
老实	lao3shi5讲，我不同意你的计划。	To tell the truth, I don't agree to your plan.
提问	我就他的小说向他ti2wen4。	I plied him with questions about his novel.
物质	发热原使发热的一种wu4zhi4	A substance that produces fever.
单独	她dan1du2去是很危险的。	It's unsafe for her to go alone.
似的	现在仿佛是秋天shi4de5。	It seems as if it were autumn.
巨大	爆炸发出ju4da4的声响。	The explosion gave forth a tremendous sound.
一辈子	她讲了yi1bei4zi5中文。	She has spoken Chinese all her life.
好奇	hao4qi2是儿童的天性。	Curiosity is part of the children's nature.
胸	xiong1痛可能是心脏病的症状。	Chest pains may be symptomatic of heart disease.
总之	zong3zhi1, 你做得不好.	In brief, your work is bad.
范围	那架飞机的残骸散布fan4wei2很大.	Wreckage of the aircraft was scattered over a wide area.
背景	这部小说以战前的伦敦为bei4jing3。	The novel is set in pre-war London.
时期	这是革新shi2qi1。	It was a period of innovation.
圆	yuan2的轴线是其直径.	The axis of a circle is its diameter.
理论	li3lun4上是如此。	It is so in theory.
布	bu4已经打成包。	The cloth was packed in bales.
总算	这场戏zong3suan4结束了。	The play came to an end after all.
过分	皮肤晒得guo4fen4就能起皱纹.	Too much sunbathing will wrinkle your skin.
身材	侏儒shen1cai2矮的人	A man short in stature.
陌生	我在这座mo4sheng1的城市迷路了。	I got lost in the strange city.
亲自	女王将qin1zi4授予礼品.	The Queen will make the presentation (ie will hand over the gift) herself.
摄影	教堂内严禁she4ying3.	Photography is strictly forbidden in the cathedral.
去世	他母亲去年qu4shi4了.	His mother passed away last year.
兔子	tu4zi5在篱笆下打洞。	The rabbit burrowed under the fence.
飘	有个气球从空中piao1过.	A balloon floated across the sky.
公开	她不应该把我的信gong1kai1。	She should not give publicity to my letter.
委屈	她觉得（自己）有点wei3qu5.	She feels (she's been) rather hard done by.
请求	人们qing3qiu2政治避难。	The people ask for political asylum.
体会	根据牛顿第一定律，如果不对物体施加力的话，静止物ti3hui4一直保持静止。	According to Newton's first law, a body at rest will remain at rest until a force is applied to it.
宿舍	他住在学校的su4she4里。	He hangs out in the school dormitory.
掌握	我们完全zhang3wo4了情势。	We have the situation well in hand.
土豆	tu3dou4可先煮至半熟再烤.	Potatoes can be parboiled before roasting.
程序	对cheng2xu4进行修改是徒劳无功的.	Revising the procedure was an entirely profitless exercise.
蛇	我害怕she2。	I have a fear of snakes.
销售	超级市场xiao1shou4各种货物。	The supermarket sells goods of all descriptions.
投入	他往投币孔tou2ru4一枚硬币。	He put a coin into the insertion slot.
滑	我们顺著草坡hua2下去.	We slid down the grassy slope.
评价	这出戏得到很好的ping2jia4。	The play was very well reviewed.
批	她一晚上都在pi1试卷.	She spent the evening marking examination papers.
缺乏	他的行为que1fa2一致性。	His action lacks consistency.
出口	巴西chu1kou3大量咖啡。	Brazil exports a lot of coffee.
观察	他guan1cha2事物很正确.	He sees things in their right perspective.
说不定	shuo1bu5ding4他已经死了.	For all I know he could be dead.
说服	他shuo1fu2女儿改变主意.	He persuaded his daughter to change her mind.
调整	在照相前，他tiao2zheng3了快门。	He adjusted the shutter before taking a photo.
逃避	你敢tao2bi4洗碗碟!	Don't you dare try and get out of the washing-up!
趁	犯人chen4着天黑逃跑了。	The criminal escaped under the cover of darkness.
迎接	我代表总统前来ying2jie1您。	I greet you in the name of the President.
显得	他xian3de5很憔悴。	He looks haggard.
熬夜	有些人宁可ao2ye4，而不早睡。	Some people prefer sitting up to going to bed early.
相关	定向与罗盘所指xiang1guan1的地点或位置	Location or position relative to the points of the compass.
搜索	警方sou1suo3了在周围六英里以内的树林各处.	Police searched all the woods within a six-mile radius/within a radius of six miles.
高级	他们有些人在进行gao1ji2研究工作。	Some of them are engaged in advanced studies.
地位	我们的di4wei4可以改善。	Our position is capable of improvement.
后果	不必为hou4guo3忧虑不安。	Don't be uneasy about the consequence.
深刻	我们都同意他对政治形势的shen1ke4分析。	We agreed with his acute analysis of the political situation.
资格	已撤销他代表人民的zi1ge2.	He has forfeited the right to represent the people.
营养	她因缺乏ying2yang3而虚弱。	She is weak from lack of sustenance.
把握	你绝对有ba3wo4?	You're absolutely certain?
手指	他向内勾起shou3zhi3。	He crooked his finger to himself.
幅	门前挂着一fu2门帘。	A portiere was hanging in front of the door.
应用	他是电子ying4yong4专家.	He's an expert in electronics.
毕竟	不要责备他，他bi4jing4是个新手。	Don't blame on him, after all, he is a green hand.
何必	我只是问你一个问题。你he2bi4对我这么凶。	I only asked you a question. There's no need to bite my head off.
哪怕	na3pa4失业，我也要遵循自己的原则。	I shall stand by my principles even if it means losing my job.
规矩	孩子们, gui1ju5些!	Children, please behave (yourselves)!
事物	我对那种shi4wu4不感兴趣.	Things of that nature do not interest me.
银	我喜欢戴yin2首饰。	I like to wear argentine jewellery.
欧洲	希腊位于Ou1zhou1南部。	Greece is located in the south of Europe.
告别	他向我gao4bie2。	He has taken leave of me.
摇	狗yao2了yao2尾巴。	The dog wagged its tail.
口味	可能对外国kou3wei4而言过于朴素了些。	May be a little austere for foreign taste.
人口	ren2kou3在不断增长中。	There was a steady increase in population.
表面	他只是biao3mian4诚实而已。	He is honest only on the surface.
重大	你和我的友谊对我意义zhong4da4.	Your friendship means a great deal to me.
家乡	总有一天我会回到jia1xiang1。	I can come back to my hometown some day.
服装	展出的fu2zhuang1都过时了。	The dresses on show are out of date.
当地	dang1di4地主常常虐待农民。	The local lords often treated the peasants badly.
平	他已把木板刨ping2。	He has planed the plank smooth.
设备	通风she4bei4出故障了。	The ventilation isn't working.
完整	心搏一次wan2zheng3的心脏跳动	A single complete pulsation of the heart.
沟通	我喜欢和我的家人gou1tong1。	I like to communicate with my family.
废话	我从来没听过像这样的长篇fei4hua4.	I've never heard such a rigmarole.
决赛	冠军在jue2sai4中都吃了败仗.	The champions were completely smashed in the final.
牙齿	狗露出了ya2chi3。	The dog bared its teeth.
毛病	有两个输入键有mao2bing5。	Two input keys don't work.
自私	你的行为说明你很zi4si1.	This behaviour illustrates your selfishness.
精力	那简直是浪费时间和jing1li4.	It's a waste of time and energy.
姿势	她用zi1shi4表示不赞成.	She gestured her disapproval.
矛盾	他的解释充满mao2dun4。	His explanation is full of contradictions.
初级	她参加chu1ji2饭店经理课程。	She attend a course for junior hotel manager.
蝴蝶	hu2die2到处飞来飞去。	Butterflies flit hither and thither.
阶段	改革正处于关键jie1duan4。	The reform is at its critical stage now.
阵	部队昨晚严zhen4以待。	The troops were embattled last night.
敏感	他对批评太min3gan3。	He is too sensitive to criticism.
古代	这把石斧是gu3dai4的遗物。	This stone axe is a relic of ancient times.
风险	她也在冒这样的feng1xian3.	She runs the same risks.
土地	她耕种200英亩tu3di4.	She farms 200 acres.
具体	处理这种困难你有什么ju4ti3的想法？	Have you any concrete thoughts on how to deal with this difficulty?
病毒	有些bing4du2繁殖得很迅速.	Some viruses incubate very rapidly.
关闭	工厂guan1bi4後工人失业了.	The workshop has shut down and the workers are unemployed.
教训	这样的宝贵jiao4xun5应该铭记在心。	Such a lesson should be treasured in our memories.
伙伴	huo3ban4, 该你先打.	It's your honour, partner.
隔壁	ge2bi4房间里突然爆发出一阵笑声。	There was a burst of laughter in the next room.
道德	我们对dao4de2标准看法不一致。	We differ about moral standards.
原则	撒谎违反我做人的yuan2ze2。	Lying goes against my principles.
观点	我们之间的guan1dian3不一致。	The views between us are discordant.
卡车	他们用ka3che1运煤。	They use a lorry to carry coals.
一致	决议案获yi1zhi4通过.	The resolution was carried nem con.
烫	我把衬衫tang4　胡了.	I scorched my shirt when I was ironing it.
平衡	这家公司的帐目收支是否ping2heng2？	Do the firm's accounts balance?
蔬菜	这些shu1cai4需要加些盐。	The vegetables need more salt.
地震	墙壁因di4zhen4而倾斜。	The wall declined slightly on account of the earthquake.
主任	我们的销售部zhu3ren4没有文化。	Our sales director is unlearned.
人才	好莱坞的演艺ren2cai2。	Hollywood talents.
肩膀	子弹穿透他的jian1bang3.	The bullet went clean through his shoulder.
悄悄	猫qiao1qiao1地朝着老鼠爬过去。	The cat was creeping silently towards the mouse.
资金	该项目因缺乏zi1jin1而告吹.	The project foundered as a result of lack of finance.
分别	德语和意大利语课程fen1bie2设於慕尼黑和罗马。	German and Italian courses are held in munich and rome respectively.
发挥	你应该fa1hui1你的聪明才智。	You should use your intelligence.
胃口	洋葱不适合我的wei4kou3。	Onion does not agree with me.
骨头	那块gu3tou5上没多少肉。	There's not much meat on that bone.
捡	将地上的谷粒jian3起来。	Pick up the grains on the ground.
权力	真正的quan2li4属于人民。	The real power resides in the people.
损失	谁将赔偿sun3shi1？	Who will compensate for the losses?
行业	畜牧业放养家畜的hang2ye4	The business of grazing cattle.
弱	风力较ruo4，风向多变。	Winds are mainly light and variable.
等于	一角deng3yu2十分。	A dime is equivalent to ten pennies.
软	石墨是一种ruan3而黑的物质。	Graphite is a soft black substance.
匹	那pi3马踢了我。	That horse kicked me.
形容	桃花的美丽难以xing2rong2。	The beauty of the peach blossom is beyond description.
了不起	你体重减轻了这么多，真liao3bu5qi3！	It's miraculous how much weight you've lost!
利益	公众的li4yi4高於个人的li4yi4.	The needs of the community must take precedence over (ie must be met before) individual requirements.
交往	我们与本地人的jiao1wang3有限。	We had only limited communion with the natives.
休闲	对xiu1xian2有明显作用的另一产业是娱乐。	Another industry obviously devoted to leisure is entertainment.
催	想cui1她快点是没用的.	It's no use trying to make her hurry.
现代	这座城的xian4dai4外观	The modern face of the city.
消费	即使涨价后石油的xiao1fei4仍在增长。	Consumption of oil increase even after it rise in price.
驾驶	她jia4shi3测验没合格.	She hasn't passed her driving test yet.
文字	这段wen2zi4可以有不同的解释。	This passage may be given several interpretations.
计算	我们能用半径ji4suan4出圆的面积。	We can compute the circular area with radius.
从前	cong2qian2有个美丽的公主....	Once upon a time there was a beautiful princess...
装修	他们不惜工本zhuang1xiu1这栋房子。	They decorated the house regardless of cost.
豆腐	蟹肉三明治；dou4fu5三明治	A crab burger, a tofu burger.
实验	shi2yan4证明这种关系是正确的。	Experiments prove this relationship to be true.
类型	我不熟悉这种lei4xing2的计算机.	I'm unfamiliar with this type of computer.
砍	他们kan3倒了那棵树。	They cut down that tree.
天真	她的tian1zhen1只是一种伪装。	Her innocence is only an imitation.
至于	zhi4yu2我嘛，无话可说。	As for me, I have nothing to say.
配合	这些球员们pei4he2得很好。	These players made a very good combination.
合理	这不是很he2li3嘛！	Isn't it reasonable!
尊敬	他以勇气赢得大家的zun1jing4。	He won honor for his courage.
内部	地球nei4bu4是什么样子？	What is it like in the bowels of the earth?
朵	这duo3花是雄花。	This flower is a male flower.
迅速	飞快地；xun4su4地	At a rapid pace; swiftly.
承担	你愿意cheng2dan1责任吗?	Are you willing to accept responsibility?
公布	该商行於八月份gong1bu4会计帐目.	The firm publishes its accounts in August.
仿佛	他老爱说大话，就fang3fu2他是一位要人似的。	He likes to talk big as though he was an important person.
各自	学生依次朗读他们ge4zi4的作业。	The pupils took turns in reading out their work.
雾	太阳驱散了wu4。	The sun dissipated the mist.
良好	她已获得liang2hao3学历.	She already has good academic qualifications under her belt.
挣	他们zheng1的钱够用了。	Their earnings are adequate to their needs.
肌肉	运动使ji1rou4强化。	Exercise tones up the muscles.
光临	女王guang1lin2，我们感到不胜荣幸。	We were graced with the presence of the Queen.
保留	你应该继续bao3liu2著石油股份.	You should hold on to your oil shares.
拆	这座城市已经把旧的电车轨道chai1除了。	The city has taken the old streetcar tracks up.
经营	他jing1ying2餐饮业。	He carries on a food business.
宣传	她的新剧作获得广泛xuan1chuan2.	Her new play has attracted a lot of publicity.
主持	我不打算zhu3chi2这次会议。	I don't intend to chair the meeting.
绕	轮子是rao4轴旋转的.	A wheel revolves round/on its axis.
光明	前途guang1ming2的表示名望或成功的希望的	Showing promise of fame or success.
色彩	这颗钻石在阳光下显得se4cai3斑斓。	The diamond shone with every hue under the sun.
表明	他的行为biao3ming2他是可敬的。	His conduct speaks him honorable.
因素	综合各种yin1su4之後她决定辞职。	A combination of factors led to her decision to resign.
猴子	密林深处有群hou2zi5。	There is a group of monkeys in the innermost depths of the forest.
被子	他买了一床厚bei4zi5过冬。	He bought a heavy quilt for the winter.
万一	wan4yi1我忘记，请提醒我。	In case (=If) I forget, please remind me.
卧室	她用鲜花装饰wo4shi4。	She decorated her bedroom with flowers.
乐观	该书的结尾寓意le4guan1.	The book ended on an optimistic note.
模仿	这演出纯粹是拙劣的mo2fang3.	The performance was an utter mockery.
平常	你像ping2chang2一样又迟到了.	You're late, as usual.
针对	我的话不是zhen1dui4你的。	My remarks were not aimed at you.
犹豫	他想到要在冬天游泳就有些you2yu4.	He boggled at the thought of swimming in winter.
注册	这所学校有800名学生zhu4ce4.	This school has an enrolment of 800 pupils.
采访	他们cai3fang3各行各业的人.	They interview people from all walks of life.
金属	该jin1shu3已锈蚀.	The metal has corroded (away) because of rust.
形成	犁沟由流水xing2cheng2的槽或小沟	A furrow or groove formed by running water.
蹲	老人dun1在炉火旁.	The old man squatted (down) by the fire.
宠物	我养了一些小鸡当chong3wu4。	I breed some chicks for pets.
建设	一个jian4she4的新高潮正在兴起。	A new upsurge in construction is in the making.
辞职	他正考虑从委员会中ci2zhi2。	He is considering resignation from the committee.
自豪	她zi4hao2地看著自己的工作成果.	She looked with pride at the result of her work.
支票	我接受zhi1piao4代替现金。	I accept a check in lieu of cash.
发明	他fa1ming2了一种新的晶体管。	He devises a new type of transistor.
燃烧	怒火在他心中ran2shao1。	Anger surged up within him.
优惠	中国的投资政策为外国投资者提供了you1hui4待遇。	China's investment policy provide preferential treatment to foreign investor.
合同	此he2tong2无效.	This contract is null and void.
薄	床单的中间部分磨bao2了。	The sheets have worn thin in the middle.
交换	战时很少jiao1huan4俘虏.	The exchange of prisoners during a war is unusual.
特色	春天般的或具春天te4se4的	Characteristic of or resembling spring.
法院	fa3yuan4判定她有罪.	The court adjudged her (to be) guilty.
充分	把这个混合物chong1fen4摇匀.	Shake the mixture well.
商业	我在shang1ye4广播电台工作.	I work for a commercial radio station.
摘	他们zhai1了三筐苹果.	They picked three baskets of apples.
完善	她不断修改自己的小说以使其趋于wan2shan4。	She matured her novel by constant revision.
抓紧	zhua1jin3绳子, 否则你会跌下来的。	Get hold of the rope or you will fall.
化学	我喜欢hua4xue2甚于物理。	I prefer chemistry to physics.
工厂	我们gong1chang3生产磨刀石。	Our factory produces grindstone.
玉米	yu4mi3不久就要结穗了。	The corn will soon ear.
商品	这些shang1pin3大量供应。	These goods are freely available.
痒	你被蚊子咬的地方还在yang3吗？	Are your mosquito bites still itching?
补充	他们拣拾木柴以bu3chong1煤的不足.	They eked out their coal by collecting firewood.
装饰	我用鲜花zhuang1shi4房间。	I ornamented my room with flowers.
划	船头hua4开水面前进.	The bows of the ship sliced the water.
克服	只要我们紧密团结就能ke4fu2困难。	We can surely overcome these difficulties as long as we are closely united.
舒适	他住在一个shu1shi4的小屋里。	He lives in a cosy little room.
佩服	我pei4fu5他的坚韧不拔的勇气。	I admire him for his grim courage.
淡	请来两杯dan4的啤酒.	Two light ales, please.
假设	站不住脚的jia3she4	An indefensible assumption.
决心	他的jue2xin1开始动摇了	His resolve began to waver.
平均	工厂的ping2jun1支出是二千美元。	The average outgo of the factory is 2000 dollars.
结合	耐心jie2he2勤奋是成功所必需的。	Patience combined with diligence is necessary to success.
独特	象的鼻子是一种du2te4的附肢.	The elephant's trunk is a unique form of appendage.
退休	他tui4xiu1前是空军中将。	He was an Air Marshal before retirement.
现象	机翼显出有金属疲劳的xian4xiang4.	The aeroplane wing showed signs of metal fatigue.
暗	暴风雨来临时，天空转an4。	The sky turned dark as the storm came near.
标志	烧瓶侧面有刻度biao1zhi4.	The graduations are marked on the side of the flask.
糊涂	你可把我完全弄hu2tu5了!	Now you've mixed me up completely!
培养	母亲设法pei2yang3儿子对音乐的兴趣。	The mother tried to foster her son's interest in music.
演讲	他写下yan3jiang3的提纲。	He wrote down the outline of his lecture.
博物馆	参观bo2wu4guan3被推迟了。	Our visit to the museum is postponed.
生产	这些树sheng1chan3橡胶。	This tree produces rubber.
消化	胃液能帮助xiao1hua4。	Gastric juices help us digest our food.
限制	政府已经对进口加以了xian4zhi4。	The government has imposed limitation on imports.
财产	剥夺了他的全部cai2chan3.	He was stripped of all his possessions.
过敏	guo4min3是身体对某些物质的不良反应。	An allergy is an adverse reaction of the body to certain substances.
偶然	我遇见她完全是ou3ran2的.	I met her quite by chance.
彩虹	你看到cai3hong2了吗？	Do you see rainbow?
文明	说话要wen2ming2有礼!	Keep a civil tongue in your head! ie Don't speak rudely!
激烈	请原谅我说了ji1lie4的话。	Pardon my strong language, please.
采取	我们必须cai3qu3坚定的态度。	We must maintain a firm attitude.
干脆	要是你打算买一个新的扩音器，何不gan1cui4将全套设备换成新的？	If you are getting a new amplifier, why don't you go to the big figure and replace everything?
豪华	这个贫穷的女孩被大厦里的hao2hua2的陈设惊呆了。	The poor girl was astonished by the sumptuous furnishings of the mansion.
开放	烟火炸kai1fang4出一阵火花.	The firework exploded in a shower of sparks.
代替	机器生产已经dai4ti4了手工劳作.	Work done by machines has replaced manual labour.
业务	你是否从经营ye4wu4的新方法中获益?	Did you benefit from the new way of doing business?
蜜蜂	mi4feng1蜇得很疼.	The bee-sting smarted terribly.
至今	她的秘密zhi4jin1仍未透露.	Her secret remains untold to this day.
围巾	她的wei2jin1被油弄脏了。	Her kerchief is dirty with oil.
嗓子	｀我sang3zi5疼,＇他吃力地说.	I've got a sore throat,' he wheezed.
严肃	我真想说一句, 叫他们谈话放yan2su4些....	If I could intrude a note of seriousness into this frivolous conversation...
最初	你对北京的zui4chu1印象如何？	What were your first impressions of Beijing?
应付	他已准备好ying4fu5任何事。	He stands ready for anything.
临时	政策的条款是lin2shi2决定的.	Points of policy are decided ad hoc.
指导	他在我的zhi3dao3下做这件事.	He did the work under my direction.
讽刺	最後的话是对我的feng3ci4.	That last remark was a hit at me.
成分	焦炭的主要cheng2fen4是碳。	Coke consists mainly of carbon.
工人	码头gong1ren2开始卸货。	Dockers started unloading the ship.
合法	这不但he2fa3，而且非常普遍。	Not only is it legal, it's very popular.
面临	那窗户mian4lin2著街道.	The window faces the street.
指挥	他zhi3hui1分发食物给难民。	He directed the dispensation of food to the refugees.
播放	音乐开始bo1fang4。	The music began to play.
电池	这dian4chi2是废的.	This battery is a dud.
改善	人民的生活水平明显地gai3shan4了。	People's living standard has had a perceptible improvement.
形式	该油漆以粉制品xing2shi4出售.	The paint is sold in powdered form.
辣椒	la4jiao1的味道是怎样的？	How does chilli taste?
劝	警方quan4嫌疑犯招供.	The police persuaded the suspect to talk.
夸张	这剧的滑稽场面太kua1zhang1了.	The comic scenes in the play were overdone.
酱油	亲爱的，过街到那个商店去买些jiang4you2。	My darling, come over the street to that shop to buy some soy.
否认	她fou3ren4参与了这一密谋.	She disavows any part (ie says she was not involved) in the plot.
概念	这两个gai4nian4之间有何联系？	What is the connection between the two ideas?
吸收	干沙xi1shou1水份。	Dry sand absorbs water.
电台	将通过dian4tai2转播这场比赛的实况解说。	A running commentary on the match will be broadcast over the radio.
删除	如果输入错误，可使用Delete按钮来向后shan1chu2。	If you make a mistake, use the delete button to erase backwards.
纪录	条约草案合约的预备性的草案或ji4lu4	A preliminary draft or record of a transaction.
字母	这个单词有五个zi4mu3。	This word has five letters.
伸	她把手shen1到喷泉中玩水。	She dabbled her hands in the fountain.
节省	jie2sheng3能源十分重要.	It is important to conserve energy.
优势	大多数人的右手是you1shi4手。	The right hand is dominant in most people.
项链	她脖子上戴着一条银xiang4lian4。	She wore a silver chain around her neck.
编辑	bian1ji2把整段全删掉了.	The editor struck out the whole paragraph.
全面	石油钻塔现quan2mian4开工.	The oil rig is now fully operative.
手套	有人把我的shou3tao4拿走了.	Someone has taken my gloves.
联合	公司正在lian2he2几家海外合伙人制造新产品.	The firm is working on a new product in combination with several overseas partners.
大厦	他给我显示了da4sha4的模型。	He showed me the miniature of the mansion.
遵守	我们应当zun1shou3法律。	We should obey the law.
桃	tao2上有一层细毛.	A peach skin is covered with fuzz.
主席	他们选他做zhu3xi2。	They elected him chairman.
不足	这个工厂经常原料bu4zu2。	The factory is in frequent scarcity of raw materials.
促进	贸易cu4jin4工业发展。	Trade helps industry to develop.
相似	他对此事有xiang1si4的说法。	He talked about it in a similar way.
外公	市wai4gong1路上有一处很陡的上坡路。	There was a steep climb on the road out of town.
保存	他bao3cun2了很多剪报。	He saved many cuttings from newspaper.
翅膀	蛾子抖动著chi4bang3.	The moth quivered its wings.
咨询	zi1xun2zi1xun2的行为或实例	The act or an instance of consulting.
花生	他每次将一粒hua1sheng1扔进嘴里。	He tossed the peanuts into his mouth one at a time.
漏	每逢下雨屋顶就lou4雨.	The roof leaks whenever it rains.
舅舅	我jiu4jiu5是个地道的牛仔。	My uncle is a sure-enough cowboy.
沙滩	sha1tan1上有许多遮阳篷。	There are thousands of awnings on the sea beach.
论文	他写的lun4wen2很优秀。	The treatise he wrote is excellent.
股票	股市上gu3piao4价格暴跌.	Share prices tumbled on the stock-market.
出席	当地所有的牧师chu1xi2了仪式。	All the local clergy attended the ceremony.
明确	蚂蚁间有ming2que4的分工。	There is a clear division of labor in ants.
课程	你什么时候完成大学ke4cheng2？	When do you finish your college course?
浓	她面部化妆很nong2.	She daubed her face with thick make-up.
模糊	她泪眼mo2hu5.	Her eyes clouded with tears.
醋	cu4中含有cu4酸.	Vinegar contains acetic acid.
从事	他cong2shi4于医学的研究。	He was engaged in medical research.
结论	不要急于下jie2lun4。	Don't jump to conclusions.
前途	qian2tu2似乎有点不妙.	The future does not seem very hopeful.
安装	截肢之後an1zhuang1了义肢.	A prosthesis was fitted after the amputation.
难怪	nan2guai4你来晚了!	No wonder you were late!
包裹	他用绳子把bao1guo3扎紧。	He tied the package with a cord.
捐	他们希望税juan1略微减少。	They are hoping for a small diminution in taxes.
强调	声明一个语气qiang2diao4的宣告	An emphatic declaration.
绳子	sheng2zi5拉紧后崩断了。	The rope severed under the strain.
集体	ji2ti3用膳食堂	A mess hall.
牛仔裤	我姐姐和我都喜欢穿niu2zai3ku4。	Both my sister and I like to wear jeans.
组成	水由氢和氧zu3cheng2。	Water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen.
逐渐	她zhu2jian4陷入昏迷状态.	She lapsed into a coma.
胡说	他完全是hu2shuo1！	What utter rubbish he talks!
撕	他们与记者si1打起来。	They scuffled with reporters.
影子	椅子的ying3zi5映到墙上了.	The chair casts a shadow on the wall.
迟早	我们chi2zao3会查明事实真相。	We shall find out the truth early or late.
谨慎	他说话jin3shen4。	He is careful in his speech.
日期	你们选定结婚ri4qi1了吗?	Have you fixed on a date for the wedding?
预防	政府发出了yu4fang2水灾的警告。	The government put out a warning against flood.
拦	马在第一道lan2栅前就不肯跳了，我就是那时摔下来的。	The horse refused at the first fence, and that's when I came off.
善于	她shan4yu2理财。	She is wise in money matters.
称呼	我们应该怎样cheng1hu5她呢?	How should we style her?
尾巴	蝌蚪有wei3ba5。	A tadpole has a tail.
物理	她在大学期间主修数学和wu4li3。	She majored in maths and physics at university.
摩托车	那辆mo2tuo1che1就会要了你的命。	That motorbike will be the death of you.
措施	采取任何你认为最好的cuo4shi1。	Take whatsoever measures you consider best.
人民币	我从未用过ren2min2bi4付款。	I've never made payment in Renminbi before.
培训	人事部门正在组织新雇员的pei2xun4.	Personnel is/are organizing the training of the new members of staff.
疲劳	她推说她觉得很pi2lao2。	She pleaded that she felt very tired.
成果	那项发明是集体努力的cheng2guo3。	The invention was a collective effort.
军事	拼凑一个jun1shi4同盟。	Rig up a military alliance
恶劣	多么e4lie4的天气!	What beastly weather!
固定	木头用钳夹gu4ding4住了.	The wood is held in position by a clamp.
开发	新矿正在kai1fa1.	New mines are opening up.
领域	他对文学ling3yu4特别感兴趣。	His special interest lies in the area of literature.
综合	＜大学英语词汇zong1he2测试题＞。	Practice Tests For College English Vocabulary""
登记	我deng1ji4住进了旅馆。	I checked in at the hotel.
钓	他计划星期天去diao4鲑鱼。	He planed to go fishing for salmon on Sunday.
赞美	他没注意到她的zan4mei3。	He does not pay attention her praising.
规模	他决定开一间小gui1mo2杂货店。	He has decided to open a grocer store in a small way.
双方	协议对shuang1fang1具有约束力。	The agreement is binding on both parties.
贡献	她对国家的gong4xian4极大.	Her services to the state have been immense.
破产	他几乎po4chan3了。	He is practically ruined.
反复	这种衣料经得住fan3fu4洗涤。	This dress material will withstand repeated washing.
制度	不要反对这个zhi4du4。	Don't try to buck the system.
沙漠	sha1mo4中仍有丛林。	There is still underbrush in the desert.
违反	wei2fan3一项合同；侵犯专利权	Infringe a contract; infringe a patent.
宽	kuan1为80厘米.	The width measurement is 80 cm.
救护车	jiu4hu4che1及时赶到了那座倒塌的大厦。	The ambulance reached the collapsed building in due time.
健身	有氧jian4shen1法旨在增强循环和呼吸功效的生理调节体系，包括有力的、持久的锻炼，例如慢跑、游泳或骑自行车，从而提高肌体对氧气的利用	A system of physical conditioning designed to enhance circulatory and respiratory efficiency that involves vigorous, sustained exercise, such as jogging, swimming, or cycling, thereby improving the body's utilization of oxygen.
亲切	qin1qie4之人容易接近。	Such people as are friendly are easy to approach.
集合	全校在大礼堂ji2he2.	The whole school (was) assembled in the main hall.
成人	我正在cheng2ren2学校补习法语，到时好让他们大吃一惊。	I'm brushing up on my French at adult school just to surprise them.
鼓掌	演员们向gu3zhang3的观众鞠躬.	The cast bowed as the audience applauded.
义务	我觉得这是我的yi4wu4。	I feel it is my duty.
改革	教育体制要作许多gai3ge2。	Many reforms must be made to the education system.
可靠	我确信他是个ke3kao4的接班人。	I am sure that he is a reliable successor.
阳台	yang2tai2是有墙的平台。	A balcony is a platform with a wall.
当心	dang1xin1别喝多了.	Take care (that) you don't drink too much/not to drink too much.
农村	人口密度小的nong2cun1地区	Low-density urban areas.
传播	声音通过空气这一媒介chuan2bo1。	Sound travels through the medium of air.
成立	已cheng2li4工作组调查该问题.	A working party has been set up to look into the problem.
浅	那种qian3底小船叫小舟。	The small shallow boat is called a cockle.
艰巨	她被派出国执行一项jian1ju4任务.	She was sent abroad on a difficult assignment.
缓解	通货膨胀正在huan3jie3，失业情形正在改善，形势确实已好转！	Inflation is coming down; unemployment is coming down; things are definitely looking up!
多余	所有这些完全都是duo1yu2的。	All this is totally unnecessary.
相对	罗盘上南与北是xiang1dui4的.	South is opposite north on a compass.
出版	一本新书即将chu1ban3。	A new book is about to be brought out.
农民	nong2min2们正在收割大麦。	The peasants are reaping a field of barley.
自觉	我zi4jue2无资格就此问题发言.	I feel unqualified to speak on the subject.
大型	西海岸公司是个da4xing2公司。	West Coast Corps is a large corporation.
统一	德国於1871年tong3yi1了.	Germany was unified in 1871.
询问	兹答覆您的xun2wen4...	In response to your inquiry...
体现	这座新工厂是那些最新设想的ti3xian4。	The new factory is the embodiment of the very latest ideas.
射击	士兵们不停地she4ji1.	The soldiers kept up a steady fire.
谈判	tan2pan4陷入僵局。	The negotiations have reached a deadlock.
日常	她一直在照管ri4chang2的行政工作.	She has been looking after the ,day-to-day administration.
趋势	增长，向上的qu1shi4	An upward swing or trend.
落后	从上周起，我在工作中luo4hou4了。	I have fall behind in my work since last week.
宁可	我ning4ke3死，也不愿忍辱偷生。	I would rather die than live in disgrace.
热烈	他们re4lie4欢迎女王.	They extended the Queen a warm welcome.
握手	wo4shou3时软弱无力。	Has limp, weak handshake.
秘书	他叫mi4shu1把文件复制一份。	He asked his secretary to make a copy of the document.
勿	请wu4践踏草坪。	Keep off the grass.
大方	设法用钱da4fang5一点。	Try to be more generous with your money.
转变	向后转转向反面，如在政策上；大zhuan3bian4	A reversal, as in policy; an about-face.
歪	他wai1戴著帽子.	He's got his hat on askew.
必然	批评家是bi4ran2的邪恶，而批评是邪恶的bi4ran2。	A critic is a necessary evil, and criticism is an evil necessity.
录音	lu4yin1磁带的复制质量有了很大改进。	The reproductive quality of audio tapes has improved enormously.
忽视	任何国家都不容hu1shi4教育。	No country can afford to neglect education.
地毯	他从di4tan3上把表捡起来。	He picked the watch up from the carpet.
歇	坐下xie1xie1腿儿吧.	Sit down and rest your legs.
神话	这是个关于国王的shen2hua4。	It is a mythology about the king.
整体	四个四分之一可构成一个zheng3ti3.	Four quarters make a whole.
核心	这个概念是她的理论的he2xin1.	This concept is at the very core of her theory.
预报	据yu4bao4说今天的空气湿度是百分之六十。	It's said by forecast that the humidity in the air today is 60%.
展开	雄鹰zhan3kai1双翅。	The eagle unfolded its wings.
手工	采用这种新方法无须再用shou3gong1检验产品。	This new process has eliminated the need for checking the products by hand.
体贴	不ti3tie1的不考虑他人感情的；不得体的	Lacking in consideration for the feelings of others; tactless.
壶	给我再来一hu2咖啡.	Bring me another pot of coffee.
实习	她指导shi2xi2护士练习注射.	She instructed the trainee nurses in giving injections.
姑姑	原来她gu1gu5就是我表姐.	It turns out that her aunt and my cousin are one and the same (person).
复制	有的颜色fu4zhi4效果好[差].	Some colours reproduce well/badly.
闪电	shan3dian4通常伴有雷声。	Lightning usually accompanies thunder.
睁	她zheng1大眼睛注视他。	She stared at him with wide eyes.
运用	她在yun4yong4隐喻方面有独创性。	She has a striking originality in her use of metaphor.
批准	这一交易需经政府pi1zhun3.	The deal needs the government's seal of approval.
逻辑	我不理解她的luo2ji5。	I didn't follow her logic.
结构	这座建筑物jie2gou4很坚固。	The building is structurally sound.
点心	我中午通常只吃dian3xin5.	Usually I only have a snack at lunchtime.
未必	最强壮的人wei4bi4活得最久。	The strongest man does not necessarily live the longest.
移民	李先生显然是要yi2min2了。	To all appearance, Mr. Li is going to migrate.
商务	＂shang1wu4剑桥英语考试一部分是笔试，一部分是口试。＂	The Cambridge Business Exams are part written, part oral.""
球迷	双方qiu2mi2之间发生了骚乱.	Rioting broke out between rival groups of fans.
输入	shu1ru4中有好几处错误。	There are several errors in the input.
本质	谨慎是那人性格的ben3zhi4。	Caution is the essence of that man's character.
厘米	这里年平均降雪量为10li2mi3.	The average snowfall here is 10cm a year.
宝贵	真正的友谊比金钱更bao3gui4。	Real friendship is more valuable than money.
专心	你必须zhuan1xin1学习。	You must pay attention to your study.
发言	他们讥笑fa1yan2的人。	They jeered at the speaker.
贷款	他已向银行申请dai4kuan3。	He has applied to the banker for a loan.
生长	仙人掌sheng1zhang3在干旱地区。	Cacti live in dry regions.
劳动	我们必须避免无谓的重复lao2dong4.	We must avoid wasteful duplication of effort.
坚决	她jian1jue2不来。	She was quite adamant that she would not come.
观念	这一guan1nian4一向不太得人心。	The idea never really took on.
形状	变形xing2zhuang4扭曲	A distortion in shape.
车厢	他们把火车的che1xiang1连接好。	They coupled the carriages of the train together.
象征	橄榄枝是和平的xiang4zheng1。	The olive branch is the emblem of peace.
自愿	她zi4yuan4参加救济工作.	She volunteered (her services) for relief work.
胆小鬼	他自己承认是个dan3xiao3gui3.	He is a coward by his own admission.
待遇	我决不甘心忍受这种dai4yu4。	I refuse to take such a treatment lying down.
情景	这战场的qing2jing3触目惊心.	The battlefield was a fearsome sight.
总裁	zong3cai2的年龄甚至是比他的一些雇员还小。	The president was so young that he was junior to some of his employees.
事先	我们shi4xian1就知道有这个问题.	We were aware of the problem beforehand.
均匀	在翻地时应把肥料jun1yun2地混入土壤中.	The manure should be well dug in.
特征	te4zheng1显著或特殊的te4zheng1或特点	A notable or distinctive feature or characteristic.
疑问	您心里没有yi2wen4了吗?	There's no doubt in your mind?
大象	这头da4xiang4重多少吨？	How many tons does this elephant weigh?
有利	对我们来说那是you3li4的结果。	It's a beneficial result to us.
不得了	她年纪那麽大活跃得bu4de2liao3.	She is wonderfully active for her age.
着火	zhao2huo3的房子的冒出的烟在几个街区外都能看到。	The smoke of the burning house could be seen many blocks away.
木头	mu4tou2在河上放流。	The logs floated down the river.
盆	帮我洗洗这些锅碗瓢pen2好吗？	Will you help me to wash up all these pots and pans?
进口	jin4kou3食品可赚钱。	It is profitable to import food.
透明	普通的白玻璃是tou4ming2的。	Plain glass is transparent.
突出	经常吮吸拇指能使牙齿向外tu1chu1.	Thumb-sucking can cause protrusion of the teeth.
洒	他把醋sa3在鱼和土豆片上。	He sprinkled vinegar on his fish and chips.
修改	航天器的设计正大加xiu1gai3.	The design of the spacecraft is undergoing extensive modification.
赞成	她点头表示zan4cheng2.	She nodded her approval.
岸	渔船沿着an4抛锚停泊。	Fishing boats were anchored all along the coast.
极其	此人ji2qi2狂妄自大。	The man's full of conceit.
对比	他的白头发与黑皮肤形成了鲜明的dui4bi3.	His white hair was in sharp contrast to (ie was very noticeably different from) his dark skin.
差距	我们双方都作些让步以弥合价格cha1ju4怎么样？	How about meeting each other halfway to fill the price gap?
宴会	我们说服她参加了yan4hui4。	We argued her into joining us.
元旦	约翰在Yuan2dan4做了什么事？	What did John do on New Year's Day?
平等	人人生而ping2deng3。	All man are born equal.
反映	一个人的衣著可fan3ying4出其个性.	Your clothes are a reflection of your personality.
紫	那棵植物开着鲜艳的小zi3花。	The plant has a brilliant purple floweret.
老百姓	lao3bai3xing4反对这种想法.	The man in the street is opposed to this idea.
眉毛	呈拱形的扬起的mei2mao5	The arch of a raised eyebrow.
利润	现在卖报纸li4run4很少。	There is very little profit in selling newspapers at present.
地理	di4li3试题很难.	The geography paper was difficult.
面积	这房间的mian4ji1是多少?	What are the dimensions of the room?
戏剧	已安排好一个xi4ju4晚会.	A theatre evening (ie an evening at the theatre) has been arranged.
窗帘	她猛地拉好chuang1lian2。	She twitched the curtain into place.
馒头	我要吃面条而不要吃man2tou5。	I'll plump for noodles rather than buns.
干燥	因空气gan1zao4皮子都皱了。	The dry air shrivels the leather.
操心	我对儿子的教育十分cao1xin1.	I am very much exercised about the education of my son.
键盘	那架风琴有两排jian4pan2。	The organ has two banks of keys.
其余	领先者在qi2yu2赛跑者加速时就逐渐失去了优势。	The leader is losing ground as the rest of the runners accelerate.
语气	直陈动词陈述yu3qi4中用的动词	A verb in the indicative mood.
痛快	他大清早总是不tong4kuai5.	He's always out of sorts early in the morning.
工业	gong1ye4革命首先在英国发生。	The industrial revolution had taken place in England first.
香肠	她喜欢xiang1chang2和土豆泥。	She loves sausage and mash.
包含	宠爱的对象bao1han2爱意的东西	An object of the affections.
诊断	他经zhen3duan4为精神失常而送往精神病院.	He was certified and sent to a mental hospital.
摔倒	她shuai1dao3在地，碰破了膝盖。	She fell down and grazed her knee.
抽屉	请在chou1ti4里铺上纸。	Line the drawer with paper, please.
密切	汉字与日文之间有mi4qie4关系。	There is an affinity between Chinese and Japanese character.
勤奋	成功来自qin2fen4。	Success comes with industry.
传染	潜伏的chuan2ran3	A latent infection.
文学	讲师正在讲俄罗斯wen2xue2。	The lecturer is lecturing on Russian literature.
题目	这ti2mu4使我很感兴趣.	This subject is very close to my heart.
青少年	qing1-shao4nian2是身体成熟期。	Teenage is the period at which the body reaches maturity.
能源	太阳能是一种新型neng2yuan2。	Solar energy is a new kind of source of energy.
活跃	一到春天市场就huo2yue4了。	The market always picks up in the spring.
写作	他以xie3zuo4为生。	He lives by his pen.
设施	这些she4shi1使全城受益.	These facilities have benefited the whole town.
披	冷天出门时要pi1上pi1肩。	You should put a robe on if you go out in a cold day.
围绕	他指出地球是wei2rao4太阳转的.	He taught that the earth revolves around the sun.
兑换	你想怎样dui4huan4？	How do you want to change?
格外	路面结冰了，今晚要ge2wai4小心。	Take special care tonight because the road is icy.
英俊	他和他哥哥一样ying1jun4。	He is as handsome as his brother (is).
具备	那个人ju4bei4领导民众的才能。	The man had the quality for leading the people.
剪刀	钝jian3dao1剪不齐.	Blunt scissors don't cut cleanly.
争论	他无休止地zheng1lun4。	He made an interminable argument.
失业	你能甘心一辈子shi1ye4吗?	Could you reconcile yourself to a lifetime of unemployment?
怪不得	guai4bu5de5你们在舐着嘴唇，原来晚餐有肉。	No wonder you are licking your chops, there's pork for dinner.
开水	他用kai1shui3吞服药丸。	He washed down a pill with water.
家务	他们平等分担jia1wu4.	They share the housework equally between them.
营业	我完全赞成酒馆整日ying2ye4.	I'm all for pubs being open all day.
长辈	你应该对zhang3bei4和上级尊重些.	You should show greater respect for your elders and betters.
一再	他yi1zai4说他很忙。	He repeated several times that he was busy.
耳环	她的耳朵上吊着巨大的er3huan2。	Huge earrings dangled from her ears.
比例	酬金将与工作量成bi3li4.	Payment will be proportional to the amount of work done.
哲学	他致力于zhe2xue2研究。	He devoted himself in philosophical study.
扩大	我想把草坪kuo4da4.	I want to enlarge the lawn.
参考	讲话时他经常can1kao3笔记。	He frequently referred to the notes during the course of the talk.
何况	但我们懂得事情并非如此，更he2kuang4我们资金不足。	But we have learned that is not so. And in any case, our funds are low.
寿命	现代医学延长了人的shou4ming4。	Modern medicine has increased man's life span.
秩序	主要重点放在法律和zhi4xu4上。	Lay heavy stress on law and order.
时髦	她穿着一件shi2mao2的礼服。	She wears a modern dress.
作文	他的zuo4wen2比我的好多了。	His composition is far superior to mine.
制定	国会zhi4ding4法律，总统执行法律。	Congress makes the laws; the President executes them.
耽误	我被dan1wu4了一段时间。	I was temporarily delayed.
业余	他是一个ye4yu2画家。	He is an amateur painter.
常识	用用你的chang2shi2吧!	Use your common sense!
打交道	他很容易da3 jiao1dao5。	He is easy to deal with.
幸亏	xing4kui1我当时系上了安全带。	Thanks to I had tied then the safety belt.
及格	要用功，那么你才会考ji2ge2。	Study hard, and you'll pass the exam.
原料	这个国家yuan2liao4大部分靠进口.	The country has to import most of its raw materials.
纷纷	群众fen1fen1向演讲人扔臭鸡蛋。	The crowds pelted bad eggs at the speaker.
分配	他全面完成了fen1pei4的任务。	He finished the assignment completely.
汽油	qi4you2快要耗尽了。	The petrol is running out.
扶	你能fu2我上楼梯吗？	Could you help me up the stairs?
发抖	这孩子冷得fa1dou3。	The child shivered from the cold.
运输	在yun4shu1中要允许有百分之五的损耗量.	You must allow for five per cent wastage in transit.
长途	她乘船在海上chang2tu2旅行。	She went on a long sea voyage.
会计	雇kuai4ji4划得来.	It would pay (you) to use an accountant.
此外	她的歌声优美，ci3wai4，她的舞也跳得不错。	She sings beautifully; what is (far) better/more, she dances well.
消极	xiao1ji2主义xiao1ji2被动的性格、态度、品质或行为	Passive character, attitude, quality, or behavior.
丝毫	那事无si1hao2真实性.	There isn't a grain of (ie any) truth in it.
广大	海洋是guang3da4的水域。	The oceans are large bodies of water.
证件	我查验了他的zheng4jian4.	I examined his credentials.
否定	这些事实fou3ding4了你的理论.	These facts negate your theory.
招待	他剪下一串葡萄zhao1dai4我们。	He cut off a bunch of grapes to entertain us.
盼望	孩子们pan4wang4放假.	The children are longing for the holidays.
发达	在电信fa1da2的今天, 相距遥远已不再是什麽问题了.	Distance is no problem with modern telecommunications.
赔偿	她答应pei2chang2损失.	She promised to make good the loss.
实践	认识从shi2jian4开始。	Knowledge begin with practice.
总共	zong3gong45.40英镑.	That's 5.40 in all.
工程师	gong1cheng2shi1奋力进行修桥工作.	The engineers set to on repair work to the bridge.
危害	艾滋病对一些人wei1hai4很大。	AIDS is hard on some people.
难免	这种事谁都nan2mian3。	It could happen to anybody.
多亏	duo1kui1你来帮忙--不然我们真没法办.	It's a good job you were there to help we couldn't have managed without you.
吨	这辆卡车最大载重量是一dun1。	The maximum load for this lorry is one ton.
位于	农场wei4yu2山坡上。	The farm sits on the side of the hill.
能干	我认为她是个很neng2gan4的经理.	I summed her up as a competent manager.
形势	他似乎没有意识到xing2shi4的严重性。	He doesn't seem to understand the gravity of the situation.
报到	有人通知他到司令部去bao4dao4。	He was told to report himself to headquarters.
召开	会议已由5月10日提前到5月3日zhao4kai1.	The meeting has been brought forward from 10 May to 3 May.
执照	假牙师一种牙科技术师，其专长在于制造和安装假牙，他可以直接为公众服务，而不必通过有zhi2zhao4的牙科医生	A dental technician specializing in making and fitting dentures as a direct service to the public rather than through a licensed dentist.
谦虚	qian1xu1可不是他的长处.	Modesty is not his long suit.
地道	犯人挖di4dao5逃跑了.	The prisoners had escaped by tunnelling.
试卷	班长把shi4juan4分发给同学们。	The monitor handed the papers out to the classmates.
维修	他正在上汽车wei2xiu1课。	He's taking classes in car maintenance.
重量	香蕉通常按zhong4liang4卖.	Bananas are usually sold by weight.
冰激凌	中间休息时有些点心（如bing1ji1ling2、 炸土豆片、 巧克力）.	Light refreshments (eg ice-cream, crisps, chocolate) are available during the interval.
吃亏	纳税诚实不chi1kui1.	It pays to be honest with the taxman.
改进	该报告建议安全标准应该gai3jin4。	The report advances the suggestion that safety standards should be improved.
优美	风景you1mei3，非文字所能形容。	The scenery is too beautiful for words.
悲观	向bei1guan1的人推销保险很容易.	It's easy to sell insurance to a pessimist.
构成	云层的gou4cheng2方式有好几种。	There are several kinds of cloud formations.
过期	但我必须指出，我们的厂家手头上的guo4qi1订单很多。	But I must point out that our factory has a lot of back order on hand.
动画片	dong4hua4pian4绘制者设计、创作或制作dong4hua4pian4的人，如艺术家或技术人员	One, such as an artist or a technician, who designs, develops, or produces an animated cartoon.
兼职	我正在找jian1zhi2工作。	I'm looking for a part-time job.
狡猾	他是一只jiao3hua2的老狐狸。	He's a crafty old fox.
讲究	她对衣著很jiang3jiu5.	She's very particular about what she wears.
辩论	候选人在bian4lun4中唇枪舌箭。	The candidates exchanged shafts in the debate.
整齐	她把头发拍zheng3qi2了.	She patted her hair into place/shape.
客观	ke4guan1地说，他绝无成功的可能。	Objectively speaking, he can't possibly succeed.
铃	下课ling2响了.	There's the bell for the end of the lesson.
小气	他太xiao3qi5，不肯请我们吃饭。	He's too mean to buy us a meal.
办理	将军向胜利者ban4li3了移交手续。	The general handed over to the conqueror.
肥皂	fei2zao4从我手上滑落了。	The soap slipped out of my hand.
匆忙	用不著这样cong1mang2--我们有的是时间.	There's no need to be in such a tearing hurry we've got plenty of time.
接待	钥匙都在jie1dai4处呢.	The keys are with reception.
艰苦	那一切意味看大量jian1ku3工作。	It all amounts to a lot of hard work.
高档	gao1dang4家具总是很畅销.	There's always a ready sale for high-quality furniture.
贸易	冬季mao4yi4不景气.	Trade is slack in winter.
火柴	谁把我的huo3chai2拿走了?	Who's bagged my matches?
延长	他申请yan2chang2签证有效期。	He asked for an extension of his visa.
简历	请给我们公司寄一份详细的jian3li4。	Please send a detailed resume to our company.
忍不住	我一想到他就ren3bu5zhu4颤抖。	I could not repress a shiver whenever I thought of him.
步骤	对应该采取怎样的bu4zhou4这一点还不太明确.	There is some confusion about what the right procedure should be.
名牌	她要进入ming2pai2大学学习的梦想实现了。	Her dream to enter the famous university came true.
总理	zong3li3被总统废黜了。	The Prime Minister was dethroned by the President.
爱护	ai4hu4的表现出父亲的慈爱的	Showing the affection of a father.
惭愧	can2kui4的，羞愧的	Humiliated or ashamed.
傍晚	bang4wan3时地面变凉。	The ground cools off toward evening.
感想	gan3xiang3更多地建立在感情而不是理智上的观点；gan3xiang3	Opinion based more on emotion than on reason; sentiment.
照常	不论下不下雨，比赛zhao4chang2举行。	Rain or shine, the game will be held as scheduled.
台阶	小心那个tai2jie1!	Mind (ie Don't trip over) that step!
人事	我正攻读ren2shi4学。	I am studying personnel management.
预订	可以来信或传真yu4ding4。	Reservations can be made by letter or fax.
册	那ce4书还能买到吗？	Is that volume still in print?
调皮	她眼中流露出tiao2pi2的神情.	There was mischief in her eyes.
担任	我打算dan1ren4这个工作。	I'm planning to take the job.
管子	水正从guan3zi5里喷出来。	Water is spouting out of the pipe.
递	请把字典di4给我。	Please pass the dictionary to me.
粗糙	假若便秘就应该多吃cu1cao1食物.	If you're constipated you should eat more roughage.
古典	人们认为这座神庙是gu3dian3式设计的范例。	The temple has been considered an example of classic design.
看望	我常在周末去kan4wang4我姑母。	I often go to visit my aunt at weekends.
打听	我建议你da3ting5一下这项工作。	I recommend that you inquire about the job.
学历	我的事业干得不错，但仍有可贬低我的地方，我没有大学xue2li4。	I have done quite well in my career, but it's still held against me that I didn't have a university education.
灵活	我们的计画十分ling2huo2.	Our plans are quite flexible.
柜台	他把钱放在gui4tai2上.	He placed the money on the counter.
日程	咱们进行议事ri4cheng2的下一个项目吧.	Let's pass on to the next item on the agenda.
麦克风	＂与此同时，两小时前放进去了一只mai4ke4feng1，使这些人能与他们最亲近的亲属保持联系。＂	Meanwhile, a microphone, which was lowered into the mine two hours ago, has enabled the men to keep in touch with the closest relatives.""
日历	这种ri4li4现在与季节基本保持一致，尽管每年仍有26秒钟的误差。	The calendar now nearly keeps in step with the season, although there is still on error of26 season, per year
零件	这台机器由二十个ling2jian4组成。	This engine is made up of 20 parts.
责备	主要应当ze2bei4你.	You are mainly to blame.
推广	无铅汽油的应用现正逐步tui1guang3.	The use of lead-free petrol is now being phased in.
美术	政府会拨款资助mei3shu4事业吗？	Will the government provide money to support the arts?
不要紧	赢不了也bu4 yao4jin3－－只要你尽力而为。	It doesn't matter if you don't win just do your best.
展览	大群人聚集在zhan3lan3大厅的门口。	A multitude of people gathered at the gate of the exhibition hall.
录取	我报了名的学院已经lu4qu3我了.	The college I applied to has accepted me.
淘气	你揪猫尾巴, 太tao2qi4了.	You were naughty to pull the cat's tail.
测验	明天我们将进行历史ce4yan4。	Tomorrow we'll have a history test.
潮湿	底层很chao2shi1。	The underneath part felt damp.
迫切	紧急情况紧急或po4qie4的情况	A pressing or urgent situation.
冷淡	她对我的态度有点儿leng3dan4.	There was a certain coldness in her attitude towards me.
转告	请把这个消息zhuan3gao4她。	Please pass on the news to her.
乐器	乐队在给yue4qi4调音。	The orchestra tuned their instruments.
孝顺	我丈夫是一个xiao4shun4的儿子。	My husband is a filial son.
浏览	我liu2lan3了一遍书架上的书。	I had a browse through the books on the shelf.
桔子	我喜欢ju2zi5更甚于喜欢柠檬。	I like orange more than lemon.
吸取	吸收，xi1qu3吸收的动作	The act of imbibing.
收据	请寄给我一张收到此款的shou1ju4。	Please send me a receipt for the money.
灰尘	窗台上积了hui1chen2.	Dust had collected on the window-sill.
巧妙	qiao3miao4的广告诱使人花钱.	Clever advertisements are just temptations to spend money.
启发	那句话突然qi3fa1了她。	That sentence suddenly illumined her.
热心	她的re4xin1感动了所有的人。	Her eagerness moved all the people.
手续	shou3xu4繁琐复杂，不一而足。	The modes of procedure are various and many.
出示	请chu1shi4护照。	Show me your passport, please.
广泛	他阅读guang3fan4。	He has read extensively.
光滑	桦树有guang1hua2的皮和细长的枝。	The birch has smooth bark and slender branches.
流传	这首流行歌曲到处liu2chuan2。	The popular song rings far and near.
学问	现象学研究人的经历中所有可能出现情况的xue2wen5，在此期间，并不考虑客观现实和纯粹的主观反应	The study of all possible appearances in human experience, during which considerations of objective reality and of purely subjective response are left out of account.
农业	我对nong2ye4一窍不通。	I know nothing about agriculture.
辅导	我为准备英语考试的人做fu3dao3。	I coach people for English exams.
罚款	他被fa2kuan3200美元。	He was fined 200 dollars.
陆续	人们lu4xu4进入教堂.	The procession moved into the church.
要不	我们得跑著去, yao4bu4就太晚了.	We must run, otherwise we'll be too late.
称赞	他总是cheng1zan4他的女儿。	He always speaks well of his daughter.
生动	赏心悦目的sheng1dong4描述	A luscious, vivid description.
行人	示威者向xing2ren2分发传单.	The demonstrators distributed leaflets to passers-by.
钢铁	那个工厂需要大量gang1tie3以维持生产。	The factory is in great demand of steel to keep up production.
鲜艳	她把窗台漆上xian1yan4的颜色。	She painted the window sills a bright colour.
斜	我们xie2渡过河。	We slanted across the river.
发票	fa1piao4为到岸价35英镑.	The invoice was for 35 cif.
外交	他有wai4jiao1豁免权。	He has diplomatic immunity.
结实	这种胶水粘得很jie1shi5.	This glue makes a good firm bond.
个别	他至少也该来道ge4bie2（然而却没来）。	He should at least have come to say good-by.
鼓舞	由衷的称赞可gu3wu3一个人的精神。	A sincere compliment boosts one's morale.
海关	你们公司的hai3guan1注册号码是多少？	What's your company's registration number in customs?
操场	他坐在cao1chang3上，聆听远处的蛙鸣。	He sat on the playground listening to the distant croak.
词汇	他ci2hui4很丰富。	He has an extensive vocabulary.
粮食	这家公司是国际liang2shi5贸易公司.	The company is an international trader in grain.
窄	路到这里变zhai3了.	The road narrows here.
目录	mu4lu4正在修订之中。	The catalogue is under revision.
利息	将li4xi1寄到她的新地址	Remit the interest to her new address.
交际	往来交往个人或群体间的交往或jiao1ji4	Dealings or communications between persons or groups.
性质	这种声明具有政治xing4zhi4。	The statements were of political character.
学术	那是xue2shu4方面的事。	It's a matter of academic concern.
抄	我真的需要把它chao1下来吗?	Do I really need to copy it?
夸	你难道不想kua1kua1我的新帽子吗?	Aren't you going to admire my new hat?
池塘	chi2tang2里有些芦苇。	There are some reeds in the pond.
主张	他zhu3zhang1削减军费开支。	He advocates reducing military spending.
报社	我非常恼怒，以致觉得非给bao4she4写封信不可。	I was so annoyed that I felt impelled to write a letter to the paper.
诚恳	我最cheng2ken3地请求你重新考虑一下你的立场.	I conjure you most earnestly to reconsider your position.
劳驾	lao2jia4，能让我过去吗？	Excuse me, can I get past, please?
种类	家禽的zhong3lei4很多。	There are many kinds of fowl.
轮流	店员要lun2liu2休息。	The shop assistants had to have their days off by turns.
议论	我知道他们和你在yi4lun4我。	I know they have been discussing me with you.
改正	请gai3zheng4我帐单上的错误。	Please rectify the mistake in my bill.
单调	成年地做一种dan1diao4工作, 能把活人也做成机器人.	Years of doing the same dull job can turn you into a machine.
周到	你送花来, 想得真zhou1dao4.	It was very thoughtful of you to send flowers.
空闲	你通常是怎样度过你的kong4xian2时间？	How do you usually spend your leisure time?
上当	马克曾在密西西比河shang4dang4过领航员。	Mark used to be a pilot on the Mississippi River.
用途	这台机器有多种yong4tu2。	The uses of this machine are manifold.
果实	树木能结出guo3shi2.	Trees bring forth fruit.
主观	你的理论纯粹是zhu3guan1臆测.	Your theory is pure conjecture.
嫩	长颈鹿从高高的树上吃掉nen4树叶子。	The giraffe eats tender leaf from the tree highly.
逐步	他将被zhu2bu4提升。	He will be promoted step by step.
本领	她是怎样学到ben3ling3的？	How did she acquire her skill?
风俗	此feng1su2在有些村里至今犹存.	The custom still lingers (on) in some villages.
繁荣	我国任何时候都没有现在这样fan2rong2。	At no time has the country been more prosperous than at present.
讲座	该系列jiang3zuo4可自然分作三部分。	The lecture series falls naturally into three parts.
往返	渡船定期wang3fan3于英吉利海峡。	Ferryboats ply across the English Channel.
昆虫	kun1chong2几乎都有触角。	Almost all insects have feelers.
湿润	她的眼睛shi1run4了。	Her eyes moistened slightly.
夹子	胸针用jia1zi5或别针固定的一件首饰；胸针	A piece of jewelry that fastens with a clasp or clip; a brooch.
描写	他不大擅长miao2xie3叙述.	He's not very good at description.
书架	他奔向shu1jia4。	He ran to the bookshelf.
打喷嚏	da3 pen1ti4时, 要用手帕遮住.	Use a handkerchief when you sneeze.
成语	我要不时地再给你们介绍一些cheng2yu3。	I'll give you some more idioms from time to time.
浇	他被雨jiao1得全身湿透。	He was wet from head to foot from the shower.
促使	是什麽cu4shi3你做出这等蠢事来的?	What induced you to do such a stupid thing?
印刷	yin4shua1油墨用光了。	The printing ink has been used up.
躲藏	她冲到门口duo3cang2起来.	She darted into the doorway to hide.
梨	想吃li2吗？	Would you like a pear?
征求	我zheng1qiu2这位老师的意见。	I asked the teacher for her advice.
分布	有些植物fen1bu4得很广。	Some types of plants are widely distributed.
爱惜	我弟弟用这部车时毫不ai4xi1，害得我花一大笔修理费。	My brother's careless treatment of the car has run me in for a large repair bill.
单元	这本课本有二十dan1yuan2。	This textbook has twenty units.
胶水	这种jiao1shui3粘不住.	This glue doesn't stick very well.
陆地	我们要做lu4di4旅行。	We will have an overland journey.
熟练	他干这工作很shu2lian4.	He performed the job with practised skill.
丝绸	他们的主要出口货物是纺织品，特别是si1chou2和棉布。	Their main exports are textiles, especially silk and cotton.
硬件	我对计算机ying4jian4一窍不通。	I know nothing about computer hardware.
不见得	这工作一年之内bu4 jian4de5能完成.	The job is unlikely to be finished inside (of) a year.
缩短	该剧经删去两场而suo1duan3了.	The play was shortened by the omission of two scenes.
刻苦	她已ke4ku3攻读法语数月.	She's been plugging away at her French lessons for months.
叙述	他未xu4shu4自己的理由。	He omitted to state his reasons.
岛屿	台湾是座美丽的dao3yu3，这是不可否认的。	There is no denying that Taiwan is a beautiful island.
平方	7的ping2fang1是49.	The square of 7 is 49.
轻视	你不可因一个人贫穷而qing1shi4他。	You must not despise a man because he is poor.
样式	朴实的yang4shi4或风格上朴实简单的；质朴的	Pure or simple in design or style; austere.
胡同	那个贼偷偷钻进黑hu2tong4里.	The thief slunk down the dark alley.
发愁	fa1chou2於事无补.	Fretting about it won't help.
小麦	我们把xiao3mai4磨成面粉。	We grind up the wheat to make flour.
用功	yong4gong1的学生有前途。	Promising is a diligent student.
叉子	他用cha1zi5叉肉.	He stabbed the meat with his fork/stabbed his fork into the meat.
竹子	zhu2zi5是中空的。	Bamboo is hollow.
与其	yu3qi2撤约还不如延期装运。	Better to postpone the shipment than to cancel the contract.
讨价还价	推销员拒绝tao3jia4-huan2jia4。	The salesman refused to bargain over the price.
概括	主席的简短陈辞gai4kuo4了委员会的观点.	The chairman's short statement encapsulates the views of the committee.
梳子	梳麻针排用来分开亚麻纤维的shu1zi5	A comb for separating flax fibers.
煤炭	禁止mei2tan4输出。	Prohibition was laid on the export of coal.
教材	这对於设计新市中心是个最佳的反面jiao4cai2。	It is a classic example of how not to design a new city centre.
抽象	这是一种chou1xiang4物。	This is a kind of abstraction.
游览	後来我们you2lan3了东京.	Next we visited Tokyo.
悠久	杭州是一座有you1jiu3历史的城市。	Hangzhou is a city with a long history.
灰心	不要hui1xin1，每个人都有转运的一天。	Don't lose your hope, every dog has his day.
开幕式	我们有必要参加kai1mu4shi4.	We were obligated to attend the opening ceremony.
次要	她在剧中扮演了一个ci4yao4的角色。	She acted as a minor role in the play.
振动	耳膜的zhen4dong4帮助声音传送到大脑。	A vibrating membrane in the ear helps to convey sounds to the brain.
着凉	我怕我是zhao2liang2了。	I'm afraid I've caught a chill.
拐弯	guai3wan1之前别忘记指示车行方向。	Don't forget to indicate before turning.
提倡	礼拜仪式倡用人运用或ti2chang4运用礼拜仪式的人	One who uses or advocates the use of liturgical forms.
朗读	看著课文, 听我给你lang3du2.	Follow the text while I read it out to you.
虚心	新演员们受到评论界热烈的赞扬，迫使老演员们xu1xin1谨慎，力保桂冠。	Enthusiastic critical acclaim for the newcomers is forcing older actors to look to their laurels.
急忙	她ji2mang2去银行了.	She has nipped out to the bank.
再三	囚犯对被控罪名zai4san1否认。	The prisoner repeated denials of the charges against him.
粘贴	把标签zhan1tie1在你的手提箱上。	Stick a label on your suitcase.
舍不得	我she3bu5de5把这麽多钱花在穿衣服上.	I hesitate to spend so much money on clothes.
挂号	我把那封信gua4hao4寄出了，因为里面有钱。	I registered the letter because it contain some money.
扇子	我猛然打开shan4zi5。	I flipped my fan open.
押金	旅游公司将ya1jin1退还给他，并承认旅游宣传手册内容有误。	The tour company refunded his deposit, with an admission that the brochure was incorrect.
内科	这医院有nei4ke1病房和外科病房.	The hospital has a medical ward and a surgical ward.
好客	不hao4ke4的没有表现出hao4ke4的；不友好的	Displaying no hospitality; unfriendly.
不耐烦	他因bu4 nai4fan2而烦躁不安。	He was fretting with impatience.
中旬	我想要到十月zhong1xun2。	By the middle of October, I think.
可见	这种树木ke3jian4于平原。	Such trees can be found in the plains.
经商	他的职业是jing1shang1。	He is a merchant in occupation.
国庆节	Guo2qing4jie2就要到来了。	National Day was approaching.
文具	纸张盒，wen2ju4盒一种用于装wen2ju4和其它书写用具的盒子	A box used to hold stationery and other writing materials.
声调	她用毫无表情的sheng1diao4回答问题，甚至连眼睛都不抬起。	She answered in a flat little voice and didn't even raised her eyes.
看不起	我希望你不要kan4bu5qi3这种工作。	I wish you wouldn't look down on this kind of work.
日用品	我要去购物，因为我需要买些ri4yong4pin3。	I'm going shopping because I need to buy some daily necessities.
近代	jin4dai4研究已使这个问题大为明朗化了。	Modern investigations have thrown great light on this question.
归纳	我们把讨论的要点gui1na4一下好吗?	Could we have a run-through of the main points discussed?
干活儿	别到处胡闹了, gan4huo2r5去吧.	Stop larking about and get on with your work.
提纲	在演讲开始时，他总是先分发一份ti2gang1。	At the beginning he would always hand out an outline of the lecture.
尺子	用这把chi3zi5能量得准吗?	Can you measure accurately with this ruler?
推辞	他本来答应跟我们同往，但后来一直借故tui1ci2了。	He promised to go with us, but he has since begged off.
名胜古迹	他喜欢参观ming2sheng4 gu3ji4。	He likes to visit place of interest.
而	黑夜转瞬er2至.	Night was fast approaching.
获得	哪一方将huo4de2控制权？	Which side will get the mastery?
死	他的病让我急si3了。	I'm worried sick by his illness.
超过	后面那辆车想chao1guo4我们。	The car behind wants to get ahead of us.
之	常汲zhi1井涌甘泉。	Draw wells have sweet water.
当	她从小就想dang1演员.	She's wanted to go on the stage from an early age.
与	那yu3我无关。	I have nothing to do with it.
生活	我们sheng1huo2在21世纪。	We are living in the 21st century.
干	你gan4得很好。	You did a good job.
感觉	我gan3jue2不舒服。	I'm not feeling well.
刚	他gang1请假走了.	He's just gone on leave.
速度	羚羊跑起来su4du4惊人。	Gazelles can move with astonishing velocity.
行	明天上午xing2吗?	Is tomorrow morning any good?
所有	suo3you3的灯都熄灭了。	All the light went out.
却	他追赶窃贼que4未捉住.	He chased (after) the burglar but couldn't catch him.
不过	这bu4guo4是个笑话而已。	It is nothing but a joke.
地址	请说出你的姓名和di4zhi3。	State your name and address.
开心	玩得kai1xin1点。	Have fun.
幸福	金钱买不来xing4fu2。	Money can't buy happiness.
一切	yi1qie4都会好的。	Everything will be OK.
也许	ye3xu3下一次吧。	Maybe some other time.
心情	轻快的xin1qing2	In a volatile mood.
呀	这个新款式是多么新颖ya1！	How fashionable this new style is!
无	他似乎再wu2斗志.	All the fight seemed to go out of him.
发生	我知道fa1sheng1了什么事。	I know what happened.
敢	你怎麽gan3叫我胖子!	How dare you call me fat!
继续	抗旱的战斗在ji4xu4中。	The battle against drought was on.
以	燕子yi3虫为食.	Swallows are insectivorous.
活动	孩子们喜欢户外huo2dong4。	Children like outdoor activities.
以为	你yi3wei2你在跟谁说话？	Who do you think you're talking to?
永远	他说天长地久yong3yuan3爱她。	He said he'd love her to the end of time.
肯定	完全不能ken3ding4。	It's by no means certain.
场	镇外有个垃圾chang3。	There is a refuse dump out of the town.
可是	当父母ke3shi4件辛苦的事。	Being a parent can be hard work.
抱歉	我对此非常bao4qian4。	I'm terribly sorry about that.
不管	bu4guan3穷还是富，他都快活。	He is always happy whether rich or not.
棒	碳精bang4常用于电弧灯。	The stick of carbon is often used in an electric arc lamp.
爱情	ai4qing2不分贫富。	Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
任何	有司令部的ren4he2命令吗？	Are their any orders coming from the headquarters?
成为	他梦想着cheng2wei2律师。	He is dreaming of becoming a lawyer.
支持	你zhi1chi2哪个足球队？	Which football team do you support?
够	他们挣的钱gou4用了。	Their earnings are adequate to their needs.
只要	zhi3yao4我身体好一定来。	I will come provided that I am well enough.
掉	我的牙刷diao4毛.	My toothbrush is losing its bristles.
到底	这dao4di3是什么?	What on earth is that?
成功	演出极为cheng2gong1。	The performance was immense.
感谢	gan3xie4你的邀请。	I appreciate your invitation.
份	他正起草一fen4计划。	He is drawing up a plan.
原来	他的病较医生yuan2lai2以为的更严重。	His illness was more serious than the doctor first thought.
结果	你把jie2guo3算对了吗？	Did you get the answer right?
好像	hao3xiang4要下雨了。	It looks as if it is going to rain.
连	lian2哄带劝他才坦白.	The confession had to be cajoled out of him.
挺	这听上去ting3不错的。	It sounds quite all right.
完全	这wan2quan2是你的过错。	It's your fault entirely.
弄	用木炭nong4黑他们的脸	Blacked their faces with charcoal.
梦	【谚】meng4与现实常相反。	Dreams go by contraries.
无聊	走开吧，wu2liao2的忧虑！	Begone, dull care!
猜	cai1一下答案。	Make a guess at the answer.
任务	大学的ren4wu5是教学和科研。	The mission of a university is teaching and research.
消息	xiao1xi5很快传遍校园。	The news soon went round the campus.
赢	那匹马ying2定了。	That horse is a certainty.
陪	我得要求你pei2我去一趟警察分局.	I must ask you to accompany me to the police station.
来自	这阵风lai2zi4西北方。	The wind is in the northwestern direction.
醒	他上午十一点才xing3。	He didn't wake up until 11 o'clock in the morning.
部分	蛋黄是鸡蛋中的黄色bu4fen5.	The yolk is the yellow part in an egg.
停	等到雨ting2了再说吧.	Wait until the rain stops.
父亲	她fu4qin5是金融家。	Her father is a financier.
从来	我cong2lai2就厌恶早起.	I've always had an aversion to getting up early.
情况	她很善於总结qing2kuang4.	She has an apt turn of phrase for summing up a situation.
真正	这其中含有zhen1zheng4的危险。	Herein lies the real danger.
改变	建议肥胖病人gai3bian4饮食.	Obese patients are advised to change their diet.
内	迟到者不得入nei4.	Late-comers will not be allowed in.
生命	他珍视sheng1ming4。	He holds life dear.
留	他勉强被容许liu2在这里。	He is here on sufferance.
谈	我不和我的老板tan2私事。	I don't talk with my boss about my private matters.
讨厌	我tao3yan4打针。	I hate injection.
倒	再给你dao4杯茶好吗？	Can I pour you another cup of tea?
出现	chu1xian4了新困难.	A new difficulty has arisen.
安全	驾驶员使飞机an1quan2降落。	The pilot landed the plane safely.
由	水you2氢和氧组成。	Water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen.
警察	jing3cha2负责执法。	The police are responsible for the enforcement of the law.
俩	他们兄弟lia3的性情完全不同。	The two brothers have entirely different temperaments.
计划	他ji4hua4去南美。	He purposed to visit South America.
通过	提案tong1guo4了。	The motion was adopted.
放弃	我们只好fang4qi4汽车。	We'll have to dispense with a car.
拉	他la1弓放了一箭.	He shot an arrow from his bow.
是否	问问他shi4fou3能来。	Ask him whether he can come or not.
接受	他将jie1shou4口试。	He will take an oral examination.
使	受礼shi3人盲目。	Gift blind the eyes.
进行	事情jin4xing2得如何？	How are things going?
信息	我脑子一下子记不住这麽多xin4xi1.	My brain can't hold so much information at one time.
原因	不知什么yuan2yin1，她自杀了。	For one reason or another, she committed suicide.
坚持	政府jian1chi2自己的政策。	The government stood pat in its policy.
转	我们zhuan3过脚步朝家走.	We bent our steps towards home.
竟然	他jing4ran2拒绝了！	He actually refused!
台	我想买一tai2空调。	I want to buy a set of air conditioning.
正式	书信书信，尤指zheng4shi4信件	A letter, especially a formal one.
甚至	约翰shen4zhi4在夏天也不出门。	John doesn't go out even in the summer.
确实	我que4shi2得走了。	I really have to be going.
难道	反复听到同样的抱怨，你nan2dao4不烦吗？	Don't you weary of hearing the same complaints over and over again?
麻烦	不用ma2fan5了。	Don't bother.
表演	马戏biao3yan3非常吸引人.	The fascinations of the circus are endless.
增加	他的体重在zeng1jia1。	He's putting on weight.
保护	bao3hu4树苗是我们的责任。	It's our duty to protect the saplings.
当时	dang1shi2没有印刷的书籍。	There were no printed books in those days.
至少	听众zhi4shao3也有五千人。	The audience was not less than five thousand.
样子	舞台设计成牢房的yang4zi5.	The stage was designed to imitate a prison cell.
联系	这两所学校一向有密切lian2xi4.	There has always been a close association between these two schools.
美丽	她长得娇柔mei3li4。	She is delicate and pretty in person.
保证	这家商号是优质的bao3zheng4.	The firm is a byword for excellence.
感情	当心别伤了她的gan3qing2.	Be careful not to/that you don't hurt her feelings.
能力	这个男孩有交友的neng2li4。	This boy has a faculty of making friends easily.
秒	他告诉我说中央C音相当于每miao3振动256次。	He told me that middle C is equivalent to 256 vibrations per second.
直接	还是我zhi2jie1跟他打交道为好	I prefer to deal with him direct.
免费	我们提供mian3fei4服务。	We provide gratis service.
本来	你ben3lai2不该笨得单独去爬山。	You should have known better than to go mountain climbing alone.
座	那部影片很叫zuo4。	That film was a great draw.
解释	他对我作了合理的jie3shi4。	He gave me a reasonable explanation.
同时	大家别tong2shi2说.	Don't all speak at the same time.
对于	运动dui4yu2各年龄段都很有利。	Exercise is profitable in all ages.
理解	她觉得很难li3jie3他。	She found great difficulties in understanding him.
使用	shi3yong4了各种车辆.	All manner of vehicles were used.
值得	学英文是zhi2de5的。	It is worth while to learn English.
精彩	你的jing1cai3报告引出了几个重要问题。	Your interesting report raises several important queries.
证明	事实zheng4ming2了这些说法。	The truth verified the allegations.
实在	这shi2zai4不是有意的。	It was really quite unintentional.
周围	农场zhou1wei2榆树成篱。	The farm is fenced in with elms.
方法	你做的fang1fa3不当.	You're doing it the wrong way.
出发	我们是六点chu1fa1的.	We started at six.
原谅	她恳求yuan2liang4。	She supplicated for pardon.
咱们	zan2men5把这篇稿子再过一遍。	Let's go over the draft once again.
经历	她讲了她的冒险jing1li4。	She recounted her adventures.
满	便道上man3是狗屎.	The pavement was covered in dogs' excrement.
指	你刚才zhi3的是什么？	What were you alluding to just now?
遍	我们游bian4全国各地.	We travelled all over the country.
戴	他的帽子没dai4正.	His hat isn't on straight.
即使	ji2shi3下雨我们也要去。	We'll go even if it rains.
可惜	那麽多食物都浪费了, 看著觉得ke3xi1.	What a pity to see all that food go to waste.
重新	将应付的钱chong2xin1集拢起来	Re-collect monies owed.
挂	这张画gua4歪了.	The picture is hanging askew.
母亲	我mu3qin1是一位教师。	My mother is a teacher.
适合	这件衣服不shi4he2我。	This dress doesn't fit me.
深	雪shen1两英尺。	The snow is two feet in depth.
调查	这仅仅是diao4cha2的开始。	It's only the initiative of the investigation.
阳光	窗外的树木挡住了yang2guang1。	The trees outside the window blocked off the sun.
困	我觉得很kun4。	I feel very sleepy.
正常	他的大脑看来功能zheng4chang2。	His brain seems to be functioning normally.
全部	我将对后果承担quan2bu4责任。	I'll bear full responsibility for the consequences.
其中	峡谷常常有河流经过qi2zhong1。	A canyon usually has a river flowing through it.
回忆	你能hui2yi4起多久以前的事情？	How far does your memory go back?
味道	鳝鱼的wei4dao4很好。	The taste of eel is delicious.
无论	wu2lun4发生什么事都要保持冷静。	Keep calm, whatever happens.
内容	这演说很动听，可是没什么nei4rong2。	It's a clever speech, but there was no real meat in it.
自然	她的头发zi4ran5卷曲。	She has a natural wave in her hair.
紧张	他一jin3zhang1就结巴。	He stammers when he feels nervous.
帅	他穿着新西装，看上去很shuai4。	He looks very spruce in his new suit.
火	我的房子保了huo3险。	My house is insured against fire.
约会	你的yue1hui4怎么样？	How was your date?
危险	wei1xian3逼近他。	Danger overhangs him.
乱	马对他们凶猛地luan4踢。	The horse kicked out at them fiercely.
低	我家属di1教会派.	My family is Low Church.
有趣	这本书很you3qu4。	This book is interesting.
丢	他在半路走diu1了。	He was lost on the way.
光	把你的青菜吃guang1。	Eat up your vegetables.
轻松	我的心情慢慢qing1song1起来.	My mood gradually lightened.
顺利	那位母亲生产shun4li4。	The mother had an easy delivery.
抱	她把孩子bao4在怀里.	She nestled the baby in her arms.
皮肤	那把刀刃仅仅刺破pi2fu1	The blade barely broke the skin.
社会	she4hui4年刊已经出版了。	The annals of the society have been published.
浪漫	她认为看lang4man4小说是虚度时光。	She thought that reading romantic novels was a frivolous way of spending her time.
于是	俄国yu2shi4对土耳其宣战。	Russia thereupon declared war upon Turkey.
主意	他想出了一个极好的zhu3yi5。	He worked out an excellent idea.
大概	这da4gai4正是我要做的。	Maybe that's what I'll do.
并且	这只狗开始生病bing4qie3很快就死了。	The dog began to sicken and soon died.
语言	你会说什么yu3yan2？	What languages can you speak?
随便	穿衣sui2bian4，穿着邋遢	Casual or lounging attire.
可怜	你应该ke3lian2他。	You should take pity on him.
篇	编者评论说那pian1文章写得很好。	The editor remarked that article was well written.
聚会	这次ju4hui4单调乏味。	The party was a dull affair.
压力	空气ya1li4使水通过管道.	Air pressure forces the water through the pipe.
兴奋	房间里发出一片xing1fen4的嚷嚷声。	The room buzzed with excitement.
照	像片上新娘zhao4得很好.	The bride comes out well (ie looks attractive) in the photographs.
建议	她的jian4yi4一再遭到拒绝。	Her proposal met with continual rejections.
苦	我遭受牙痛之ku3。	I've suffered agonies with toothache.
感动	她的故事使我很gan3dong4。	I was very moved by her story.
赶	我们几乎来不及gan3火车.	We barely had time to catch the train.
错误	不合规则的用法cuo4wu4的	Not in correct usage.
破	我把袜子穿po4了.	I've worn holes in my socks.
严重	歉收引起食物yan2zhong4短缺。	The bad harvest led to severe food shortage.
表示	我得首先biao3shi4歉意.	I have to begin with an apology.
另外	它比ling4wai4一个的声音大十倍。	It is ten times louder than another.
失望	别让我shi1wang4。	Don't let me down.
辛苦	马车夫的工作非常xin1ku3。	Wagoner's work is very hard.
要是	yao4shi4财源不断就好了！	If only one had an unlimited supply of money!
失败	我因屡次shi1bai4而苦恼。	I was embittered by repeated failures.
躺	他tang3在沙发上看电视.	He was lying on the sofa watching TV.
安排	那事已提前an1pai2好了。	It had been arranged beforehand.
肚子	他击中我的du3zi5.	He hit me in the stomach.
骗	他pian4我把自行车借给了他。	He beguiled me into lending him my bicycle.
放松	让你的肌肉慢慢fang4song1.	Let your muscles relax slowly.
广告	有些guang3gao4毫无吸引力。	Some advertisements have no pull at all.
赚	你zhuan4了多少钱？	How much money did you make?
研究	他专门yan2jiu1东方史。	He specializes in oriental history.
伤心	他们仍在为决赛失败而shang1xin1.	They're still smarting from their defeat in the final.
到处	鲜花dao4chu4盛开。	The flowers are blooming everywhere.
博士	米切尔bo2shi4病了, 所以我做代理（她的）工作.	Dr Mitchell's ill so I'm deputizing (for her).
毛	被有短mao2或柔软绒mao2的	Covered with short hairs or soft down.
意见	他的yi4jian4没多少影响。	His opinion doesn't carry much weight.
否则	快，fou3ze2你就要来不及了。	Hurry up or else you'll be late.
负责	这里谁fu4ze2？	Who is in charge here?
拒绝	资方有权ju4jue2接纳.	The management reserves the right to refuse admission.
扔	把锤子reng1给我.	Drop the hammer down to me.
说明	天气预报shuo1ming2天是晴天。	The weather forecast says it will be sunny tomorrow.
厉害	我今早头痛得li4hai5.	I've got a terrible head this morning.
浪费	这纯粹是lang4fei4时间。	It's a sheer waste of time.
难受	我觉得nan2shou4极了.	I feel awful.
冷静	叫他保持leng3jing4，不要操之过急。	Tell him to keep calm and not to crowd the mourners.
千万	qian1wan4别笑他, 他很敏感.	Don't laugh at him; he's very sensitive.
激动	他感到ji1dong4得发抖。	He felt a quiver of excitement.
许多	我有xu3duo1唱片。	I have many discs.
详细	他xiang2xi4列出全部被盗的财物。	He gave full particulars of the stolen property.
提供	你能为这些要求ti2gong1证件吗?	Can you document these claims?
专业	他的zhuan1ye4是比较文学。	He majored in comparative literature.
发展	治疗抑制了病情的fa1zhan3。	The treatment arrested the growth of the disease.
钥匙	我很倒霉，丢了yao4shi5。	I was unfortunate to lose my keys.
收拾	请把那些杯子和碟子shou1shi5好。	Please pick up those cups and saucers.
方面	我们在音乐fang1mian4爱好相似.	We have similar tastes in music.
既然	ji4ran2有空，我可以享受一下音乐。	Now that I am free, I can enjoy music for a while.
生意	他们一起做过sheng1yi5。	They've done some business together.
首先	会议shou3xian1由他致词.	He opened the conference with a speech.
差不多	那辆车跟新的cha4bu4duo1.	The car is pretty nearly new.
正确	思考zheng4que4是重要的。	Thinking correctly is important.
提醒	他父亲ti2xing3他不要马虎。	His father reminds him not to be careless.
号码	他翻阅地址簿，寻找hao4ma3。	He thumbed through the address book looking for the number.
动作	破碎打碎成碎片的dong4zuo4或过程	The act or process of breaking into fragments.
估计	这两种gu1ji4差别很小.	There's only a marginal difference between the two estimates.
效果	左边的人物有损于画面的xiao4guo3。	The figure on the left spoils the unity of the painting.
比如	bi3ru2说江西吧。	Take Jiangxi for example.
距离	请保持在听得见的ju4li2之内。	Please keep within hearing distance.
后悔	我们非常hou4hui3做此决定。	Bitterly did we repent our decision.
态度	他的tai4du5带有几分傲慢。	His manner partakes of insolence.
关键	问题的guan1jian4就在那里.	Therein lies the crux of the matter.
因此	他病了很久，yin1ci3耽误了功课。	He had been ill for a long time and consequently he was behind in his work.
不得不	我们bu4de2 bu4采取预防措施。	We had to take preventive measures.
责任	使学生学习是教师的ze2ren4。	It's a teacher's business to make student learn.
方向	指引fang1xiang4的神	A guiding spirit.
十分	一部shi2fen1深奥的小说	A novel of great depth.
过程	卸货的guo4cheng2很缓慢.	Unloading the cargo was a slow process.
左右	我4点钟zuo3you4找你。	I'll look out for you at about four.
技术	那位技师ji4shu4很好。	That technician is highly skilled.
愉快	祝你旅途yu2kuai4。	I wish you a pleasant trip.
道歉	她固执得就是不dao4qian4。	Sheer obstinacy prevented her from apologizing.
国际	他们紧急请求guo2ji4援助。	They've made an urgent request for international aid.
仍然	她reng2ran2坚持要求赔偿.	She is still pressing her claim for compensation.
怀疑	我从未huai2yi2过他的诚实。	I never doubted his honesty.
演员	乐队奏乐欢迎yan3yuan2登台.	The band played the performers onto the stage.
受到	他不愿意shou4dao4打扰。	He did not care to be disturbed.
打扰	请别da3rao3我。	Please leave me alone.
接着	jie1zhe5怎么样了?	What happened then?
讨论	下一章tao3lun4动词.	The next chapter deals with verbs.
允许	他决不yun3xu3有异议。	He will permit no contradiction.
地球	di4qiu2环绕太阳运行。	The earth revolves round the sun.
尽管	他jin3guan3有病，还是可以上课。	He is not so sick but he can attend a class.
价格	jia4ge2的起点是五镑。	Prices start at￡5.
经验	我在摸索教学jing1yan4。	I am trying to find out experience in teaching.
教育	这是本有jiao4yu4意义的书。	This is an instructive book.
羡慕	我真xian4mu4．你多美啊!	I do envy you. You're so beautiful!
邀请	他yao1qing3我们参加晚会。	He invited us to the party.
困难	他勇敢地面对kun4nan5。	He faced the difficulty with courage.
究竟	我们现在jiu1jing4到哪里了?	Where on earth have we fetched up now?
自信	她显得很zi4xin4.	She appeared/seemed very confident.
剩	晚餐吃sheng4的东西被收去了。	The remains of the supper were taken away.
通知	地址如有变动，请tong1zhi1我们。	Please notify us of any change of address.
小说	这本杂志登载优秀的xiao3shuo1。	This magazine published excellent stories.
年龄	孩子们彼此的nian2ling2很接近.	The children are close to each other in age.
巧克力	有些啤酒和qiao3ke4li4有苦味。	Some beer and chocolate taste bitter.
作用	盐zuo4yong4於冰而使其融化.	The action of salt on ice causes it to melt.
职业	士兵的zhi2ye4是打仗。	The trade of the soldier is war.
合适	这对我太he2shi4了。	Suits me fine.
脱	他们在墓旁tuo1帽默哀.	They took off their hats by the grave in silent salute.
烦恼	工作能减轻fan2nao3。	Work can allay trouble.
毕业	他bi4ye4于一所工艺美术学校。	He graduated from a school of crafts and arts.
演出	这座剧场一天yan3chu1两场。	The theater gives two performances a day.
汤	这tang1里有鸡肉的味道。	This soup tastes of chicken.
复杂	排演话剧的过程很fu4za2.	The mechanics of staging a play are very complicated.
尊重	父辈应当被zun1zhong4。	A sire should be respected.
笑话	他用一则有趣的xiao4hua5结束了演讲。	He closed his speech with a funny joke.
观众	guan1zhong4总计达两万人。	The audience totalled20, 000.
空气	kong1qi4是气体的混合物。	Air is a mixture of gases.
勇敢	他yong3gan3地忍受着困苦。	He bore his tribulations bravely.
响	电话xiang3了。	The telephone is ringing.
节	我们一星期三jie2化学课。	We have three periods of chemistry a week.
熟悉	他shu2xi1这一学科。	He is at home with this subject.
省	我们得sheng3吃俭用来付帐.	We had to scrimp and save to pay the bills.
推	【谚】墙倒众人tui1。	When a man is going down-hill, everyone will give him a push.
厕所	我要上ce4suo3.	I need to go to the bathroom.
密码	mi4ma3一种mi4ma3系统，其中固定长度的明文里的单元，通常为字母，被任意倒置或按事先确定的符号系统替换	A cryptographic system in which units of plain text of regular length, usually letters, are arbitrarily transposed or substituted according to a predetermined code.
由于	他you2yu2偷窃被送入监狱。	He was sent into prison for stealing.
提前	这项工程ti2qian2完工。	The project was completed ahead of the schedule.
申请	他正向领事shen1qing3签证。	He is applying to the Consul for a visa.
辣	他的舌头被红la4椒la4得好难受。	He burned his tongue with red pepper.
逛	为了消磨时间等待展览开始, 我们guang4了guang4商场。	To kill time until the exhibition opened, we looked round the shops.
杂志	我订阅了几份za2zhi4。	I subscribed to several magazines.
糖	你的食tang2有富余吗?	Do you have any sugar to spare?
经济	你知道今年的jing1ji4政策吗？	Do you know the economic policy of this year?
标准	他们有一些biao1zhun3纯银餐具。	They have some sterling silver cutlery.
网站	下次再到一个需要使Shockwave的wang3zhan4时，Shockwave控制程序就会自动装载并播放电影。	The next time you go to a""Shocked"" website, the Shockwave control loads and plays the movie.
文章	他经常给当地报纸写wen2zhang1。	He constantly writes articles for the local paper.
记者	ji4zhe3们歪曲了事实。	The reporter distorted the facts.
互相	他们hu4xiang1争吵。	They quarreled among themselves.
厨房	保险丝盒子在chu2fang2里。	The fuse-box is in the kitchen.
优秀	一切you1xiu4战略的精髓是简单。	The essence of all good strategy is simplicity.
页	我已经校对完二十ye4了。	I have proofread twenty pages.
顺便	到伦敦时shun4bian4来看我。	Drop in and see us when you're next in London.
艺术	你对现代yi4shu4有何看法？	What do you think of modern art?
流行	瘟疫liu2xing2这种疾病的liu2xing2	An epidemic of such a disease.
出生	他chu1sheng1于英格兰。	He was born in England.
共同	我们的公司实行gong4tong2责任制.	Our business is a joint/shared responsibility.
餐厅	他十二点五十分在can1ting1吃午餐。	At twelve-fifty, he ate lunch in a restaurant.
正好	这两种政体zheng4hao3相反。	The two systems of government are polar opposites.
反对	人民fan3dui4专制。	The people resist despotism.
懒	她的lan3丈夫成了她的一个包袱。	Her lazy husband is a millstone round her neck.
印象	我很惊讶你对他yin4xiang4不佳。	I am surprised you got an unfavorable impression of him.
目的	爱情是盲mu4di4。	Love is blind.
往往	堡垒wang3wang3带有塔楼。	A fortress often has turrets.
儿童	这些规定仅适用于er2tong2。	This regulation refers only to children.
盐	yan2在水中溶解.	Salt dissolves in water.
管理	他们最需要的是guan3li3人才。	What they need most is managerial talent.
条件	这些tiao2jian4已不复存在了。	These conditions no longer obtain.
脾气	他努力控制住自己的pi2qi5。	He struggled to control his temper.
好处	吸烟对你的健康没有hao3chu4。	Smoking is not good for your health.
性格	他xing4ge2放纵。	His character is indulgent.
引起	饥饿yin3qi3犯罪。	Hunger begets crime.
趟	这tang4列车是开往北京的。	The train is bound for Beijing.
丰富	今年的农产品很feng1fu4。	The agricultural commodities are abundant this year.
故意	他gu4yi4不到会.	He deliberately absented himself from the meeting.
云	yun2是天空中的水汽团。	A cloud is a mass of vapor in the sky.
日记	她因母亲偷看她的ri4ji4而生气。	She was angry for her mother's peeping at her diary.
数字	那shu4zi4是以百分比表示的.	The figure is expressed as a percentage.
教授	他是为历史学jiao4shou4。	He is a professor of history.
吸引	晋升的希望在xi1yin3著他.	The prospect of promotion was dangled before him.
理想	他对人生抱有崇高的li3xiang3。	He has lofty ideals about life.
世纪	汤姆是十六shi4ji4的先知。	Tom is one of the seers in the sixteenth century.
开玩笑	这可不是kai1 wan2xiao4的事。	It is no joke.
交通	jiao1tong1因浓雾而受阻。	Traffic was interrupted by a dense fog.
不仅	有头脑bu4jin3指受过教育。	Brains are more than just education.
著名	大理石拱门是zhu4ming2的伦敦标志.	Marble Arch is a famous London landmark.
恐怕	kong3pa4我们要遇上暴风雨了。	I'm afraid we're in for a storm.
地点	他提前到达会面di4dian3。	He arrived at the meeting place beforehand.
将来	你真的一点也不关心你的jiang1lai2？	Do you really care nothing about your future?
平时	你ping2shi2下班几点到家?	When do you normally get in from work?
购物	我通常星期天gou4wu4。	I usually go shopping on Sundays.
工资	我的gong1zi1多达一万元。	I received no less than ten thousand yen for my work.
仔细	他把硬币倒过来，zi3xi4检查。	He reversed the coin and examined it carefully.
排队	人们正pai2dui4买票。	People are queuing to buy tickets.
暂时	zan4shi2还用不着，谢谢你。	Not at the moment, thank you.
亲戚	他（跟我）不是qin1qi5.	He's no relation (to me).
科学	数学是研究纯数量的ke1xue2.	Mathematics is the science of pure quantity.
寒假	你飞回家度han2jia4的时刻不知不觉就会来到的，我都已经在盼望着啦！	Before you know it you'll be flying home for the winter holidays, I can hardly wait!
功夫	他的中国gong1fu5是无敌的。	His Chinese kung fu is peerless.
最好	雨伞在冬季zui4hao3卖.	Umbrellas sell best in winter.
重点	减少失业人数是政府计画的zhong4dian3.	Reducing unemploymentis the focal point of the government's plans.
知识	书是通向zhi1shi5的道路。	Books are avenues to knowledge.
酸	suan1是有腐蚀性的。	Acid is corrosive.
热闹	我不同意，布莱顿城更为re4nao4。	I disagree, brighton's more lively.
整理	她花了整整一个下午zheng3li3邮票。	She spent a whole afternoon sorting out her stamps.
饺子	我很想吃jiao3zi5。	I feel like having some dumplings.
现金	他的上司奖给他一笔xian4jin1。	He was awarded a cash bounty by his boss.
擦	他ca1去地板上的污垢。	He scoured off the dirt from the floor.
信心	一个人一定要对自己有xin4xin1。	One has to be confident in himself.
厚	城堡的墙很hou4。	The castle walls are very thick.
举	人ju3不起这样的重量.	It is not humanly possible (ie A human is not able) to lift the weight.
加班	我愿本周jia1ban1工作以示诚意.	As an earnest of my good intentions I will work overtime this week.
相同	我的想法完全xiang1tong2。	I'm of exactly the same idea.
顾客	我父亲要我送gu4ke4到门口。	My father asked me to see the customer to the door.
租	我们已zu1了一幢办公楼。	We've taken a lease on an office building.
祝贺	请让我们向你表示zhu4he4.	May we proffer you our congratulations?
尤其	伪钞钱，you2qi2指伪造的钱币	Money, especially counterfeit money.
护士	这位hu4shi5非常亲切。	The nurse was all kindness. (=The nurse was kindness itself.)
穷	他qiong2得无法买新衣。	He was too poor to buy a new coat.
看法	我百分之百同意你的kan4fa3。	I am a hundred percent in agreement with you.
适应	你必须学会shi4ying4世间的生活。	You must learn to live in the world as it is.
区别	你能qu1bie2好书与坏书吗？	Can you discriminate good books from bad?
师傅	我们昨天碰到的那个老工人是李shi1fu5。	The old worker whom we met yesterday is Master Li.
森林	他骑马去sen1lin2了。	He went to the forest on horseback.
植物	这种zhi2wu4终年常青。	This plant has green leaves throughout the year.
存	我想cun2点儿钱。	I'd like to deposit some money.
交流	谈话jiao1liu2思想、观点或感情的会话；一次交谈	A spoken exchange of thoughts, opinions, and feelings; a talk.
眼镜	我的yan3jing4框断了！	My eyeglass frame is broken!
按照	图书馆的书是an4zhao4[根据]科目分类的.	The books in the library are classified by/according to subject.
沙发	我蹲在sha1fa1後面.	I crouched behind the sofa.
只好	这家剧院光顾者寡zhi3hao3关闭。	The theatre has had to close for lack of support.
窗户	chuang1hu5碎成碎片。	The window broke into pieces.
随着	她喜欢sui2zhe5音乐跳舞。	She loves to dance to music.
小伙子	不幸的xiao3huo3zi5啊, 他刚刚死了妻子.	Poor chap, his wife has just died.
桥	这座qiao2现在可以通行。	The bridge is now open to traffic.
质量	这些货物zhi4liang4不好。	The goods are of poor quality.
公里	那条河长300gong1li3。	The river is 300 kilometers in length.
规定	我们应该依照gui1ding4行事。	We should act in conformity with the rules.
学期	第二xue2qi1自三月开始。	The second term commences in March.
盒子	请看这里的这个he2zi5。	Please look at this box here.
耐心	教幼儿需有极大的nai4xin1。	Teaching little children takes infinite patience.
收入	去岁人均shou1ru4剧增.	Per capita incomes rose sharply last year.
举行	会议每年ju3xing2一次。	The meeting is held yearly.
镜子	她对着jing4zi5作出各种面容。	She was making faces in the glass.
材料	这种cai2liao4防雨。	This material is impervious to rainwater.
减少	沿海鱼的数量已jian3shao3了.	The number of fish in coastal waters has decreased.
打扮	她讨厌da3ban4自己。	She hated being dressed up.
积极	她是党内ji1ji2的左翼分子.	She was active as a left-winger in the party.
入口	雨伞可放於ru4kou3处.	You can leave your umbrella in the entry.
总结	她言简意赅地zong3jie2了情况.	She summed up the situation in a few choice phrases.
友谊	他对you3yi4有一种非常独特的见解。	He's got a pretty strange conception of friendship.
大约	我da4yue16点半来接你。	I'll pick you up about 6:30.
富	他是世界上最fu4有的人。	He is the richest man in the world.
抽烟	我讨厌他在教室chou1yan1。	I got sick of his smoking in the classroom.
数量	敌军在shu4liang4上占优势.	The enemy forces were superior in numbers.
竞争	各商行互相jing4zheng1以招揽顾客。	Businesses vied with each other to attract customers.
幽默	剧中多处you1mo4地提到人类的弱点。	There are many humorous allusions to human foibles in the drama.
干杯	我要为此gan1bei1。	I'll drink to that.
饼干	他们把bing3gan1倒在盘子里。	They emptied the biscuits onto the plate.
广播	他发表时事guang3bo1演说.	He broad-casts on current affairs.
实际	shi2ji4劳动力有20820人。	The actual labour force numbered20820.
误会	一定有wu4hui4了!	There must be some misunderstanding!
阅读	他展开报纸开始yue4du2。	He unfurled the newspaper and began to read.
汗	han4从毛孔中渗出.	Sweat exudes through the pores.
及时	火车ji2shi2到达了。	The train arrived betimes.
稍微	门shao1wei1开了条缝。	The door opened a fraction.
航班	我那趟hang2ban1晚了一小时.	My flight was an hour late.
对面	银行在超级市场dui4mian4.	The bank is opposite the supermarket.
座位	那个zuo4wei4有人吗？	Is that seat occupied?
温度	wen1du4有细微的变化。	There is an imperceptible change in temperature.
符合	那恰好fu2he2我们的需要。	That answers precisely to our need.
禁止	人门要求jin4zhi3使用核武器。	The people ask for a ban-the-bomb.
诚实	我可以证明她是cheng2shi2的。	I can certify to her honesty.
脏	那个掸子很zang4。	That duster is very dirty.
鼓励	让我们互相支持，互相gu3li4。	Let's give mutual support and inspiration to each other.
得意	他对自己目前的境遇颇为de2yi4。	He is quite content with his present fortune.
对话	这部小说里的叙述比dui4hua4多.	The novel contains more narrative than dialogue.
缺点	没有人没有que1dian3。	There is no man but has his faults.
报名	我已bao4ming2参加跳高比赛.	I've entered for the high jump.
基础	许多语言都以拉丁语为ji1chu3。	Many languages have Latin as their base.
咳嗽	请医生开点ke2sou5药.	Ask the doctor to prescribe something for that cough.
同情	她tong2qing2他的困苦。	She sympathized with him in his afflictions.
作家	这位zuo4jia1极擅长叙述。	The writer had great skill in narrative.
海洋	江河大多流入hai3yang2.	Most rivers flow into the sea.
准时	今后请zhun3shi2。	Please be punctual in futurity.
判断	很难pan4duan4他到底多大岁数。	It was difficult to tell his exact age.
吃惊	他一脸chi1jing1的神情.	He had a startled look on his face.
专门	这个商店zhuan1men2出售巧克力。	This shop specializes in chocolates.
礼貌	别对你的父母这么没li3mao4！	Don't be so rude to your parents!
敲	谁在qiao1鼓?	Who's beating the drum?
降低	jiang4di1失业率应是头等大事。	The reduction of unemployment should be paramount.
棵	他倚著一ke1树.	He was leaning against a tree.
散步	我们san4bu4穿过树林。	We went for a ramble through the woods.
民族	他相信各min2zu2间都应亲如兄弟。	He believes in the brotherhood of all peoples.
力气	他和我li4qi5一样大.	He's my equal in strength.
作者	这本书未经zuo4zhe3许可就给翻译了。	The book was translated without the sanction of the author.
商量	我有点私事和你shang1liang5。	I have something personal to discuss with you.
举办	赞成ju3ban4选美的是年轻人。	It is young people who favor holding beauty pageants.
批评	我不喜欢读他的文学pi1ping2。	I don't like to read his literary criticism.
老虎	lao3hu3的踪迹仅依稀可见.	Only faint traces of the tiger's tracks could be seen.
胳膊	她的两只ge1bo5麻痹。	She is paralysed in both arms.
袜子	她穿上wa4zi5。	She draws on her socks.
受不了	那个孩子不调皮捣蛋简直就shou4bu5liao3.	That child seems incapable of keeping out of (ie not getting into) mischief.
缺少	他因que1shao3睡眠而两眼通红.	His eyes were bloodshot from lack of sleep.
大夫	dai4fu5治好了他的胃病。	The doctor cured him of his stomach trouble.
孙子	除了他的sun1zi5之外, 这个老人谁也不想见。	The old man wanted to see nobody other than his grandson.
害羞	使hai4xiu1的人加入了交谈	Engage a shy person in conversation.
奖金	她因未能获得jiang3jin1而深感不满。	She's very dissatisfied at not getting a bonus.
网球	她热爱wang3qiu2.	She is passionately fond of tennis.
相反	我将继续工作直到我得到xiang1fan3的命令。	I will go on with my work unless I get the order to the contrary.
污染	不纯洁或不干净的；wu1ran3的	Not pure or clean; contaminated.
严格	他对纪律是yan2ge2的。	He is stern in his discipline.
亚洲	日本在Ya4zhou1的东部。	Japan is in the east of Asia.
尝	chang2一点儿这种乳酪吧!	Just have a taste of this cheese!
迷路	他在森林中mi2lu4了。	He lost his way in the forest.
准确	我的手表走时zhun3que4。	My watch keeps good time.
重视	我们的老师对标点符号非常zhong4shi4.	Our teacher is very fussy about punctuation.
客厅	我只得把他让进ke4ting1。	I felt obliged to invite him into the parlor.
友好	让我们you3hao3地谈话。	Let's keep the conversation on a friendly plane.
葡萄	她把pu2tao2放到一个大盘子上。	She put the grapes onto the platter.
果汁	倒guo3zhi1前，先把瓶子摇几下。	Give the bottle a couple of shakes before pouring the juice.
家具	他在抬沉重的jia1ju4时扭伤了腰。	He did his back in lifting heavy furniture.
优点	我承认他身上有种强有力的you1dian3。	I grant a sledge-hammering sort of merit in him.(Dickens)
参观	我们趁便can1guan1了皇宫.	We took the opportunity of visiting the palace.
暖和	今天nuan3huo5一点儿了.	The weather is a bit warmer today.
首都	例如,伦敦是英国的shou3du1。	For example, London is the capital of Britain.
降落	飞机因大雾推迟jiang4luo4。	The plane's landing was delayed because of fog.
毛巾	他把mao2jin1系在脖子上。	He knotted a towel about his neck.
特点	宽阔，广阔宽阔的状态、te4dian3或事实	The state, quality, or fact of being wide.
出差	我飞往东京chu1chai1。	I flew to Tokyo on business.
小吃	我们时间很紧, 只好胡乱吃了顿xiao3chi1.	We were in a hurry so we had to make do with a quick snack.
例如	我们有不同的派，li4ru2苹果、樱桃和草莓派。	We have different pies, such as apple, cherry, and strawberry pies.
西红柿	你要xi1hong2shi4酱吗？	Would you like some tomato paste?
按时	只有这次他是an4shi2到了。	Just for once he arrived on time.
修理	他把手表拆开来xiu1li3。	He took the watch apart to repair it.
活泼	精力充沛的；huo2po5的	Full of energy; lively.
积累	存资料区域专用来贮存ji1lei3资料的储存区域	A section of storage reserved for storing accumulated data.
顺序	他照大小shun4xu4排列这些书。	He ranged the books according to size.
其次	我最喜欢吃桔子，qi2ci4才是香蕉。	Next to orange I like banana best.
养成	我已yang3cheng2一到家就打开电视机的习惯.	I've got into the habit of switching on the TV as soon as I gethome.
招聘	zhao1pin4店员. 请进面洽.	Shop assistant required. Apply within.
景色	落日使jing3se4更美。	The setting sun glorified the scene.
合格	不he2ge2的与标准或期望不符合的	Not measuring up to standards or expectations.
来得及	这份报告我只lai2de5ji2浏览了一遍.	I've only had time to dip into the report.
表扬	校长biao3yang2男同学服装整齐.	The headmaster praised the boys for their neat turn-out.
牙膏	你爱用什麽牌子的ya2gao1?	Which brand of toothpaste do you prefer?
打针	那个可怜的家伙，虽然不是懦夫，但一提到da3zhen1，脸都吓白了。	The poor fellow, though no coward, paled at the mention of the injection.
性别	男性的具有上述xing4bie2之特点的或适合于这种xing4bie2的	Characteristic of or appropriate to this sex; masculine.
签证	你是说我务必去弄一份qian1zheng4?	Do you mean I have to get a visa?
长城	这一段Chang2cheng2有八个垛口。	There are eight forts in this section of the Great Wall.
叶子	秋天时ye4zi5变黄。	The leaves turn yellow in autumn.
普遍	昨天天气pu3bian4晴朗。	Fair weather was the rule yesterday.
推迟	寒冷的天气使插秧tui1chi2两个星期。	The cold weather set back the planting by two weeks.
表格	请填写随函附上之biao3ge2.	Please fill in the form enclosed herewith.
信封	这个xin4feng1封得很严实。	The envelope was firmly sealed.
来不及	我已lai2bu5ji2做准备了.	I had no time in which to prepare.
打招呼	他向他的朋友da3 zhao1hu5。	He saluted his friend.
气候	qi4hou4影响了他的健康。	The climate affected his health.
房东	fang2dong1正在逼她搬家.	The landlord's putting the screws on to get her out of the house.
付款	我可以用信用卡fu4kuan3吗？	May I pay by credit card?
理发	我到那里去li3fa4。	I go there for a haircut.
勺子	我的厨房里有好几个shao2zi5。	There are several scoops in my kitchen.
打印	给我一份da3yin4出的统计资料.	Get me a printout of the statistics.
导游	我们随着dao3you2参观了城堡。	We went on a guided tour round the castle.
节约	她大力鼓吹jie2yue1是解决危机的关键。	She preached economy as the best means of solving the crisis.
传真	你仔细考虑过之后，请用chuan2zhen1相告。	After you think it over, please let me know by fax.
大使馆	恐怖分子占领了da4shi3guan3.	The terrorists have occupied the Embassy.
郊区	火车隆隆地驶出jiao1qu1。	The train whooped out through the suburbs.
零钱	我没有ling2qian2.	I've no small change.
邮局	他去you2ju2买些邮票。	He went to the post-office to buy some stamps.
矿泉水	他们这个下午卖掉了十箱kuang4quan2shui3。	They have sold up ten crates of mineral water in the afternoon.
高速公路	新住宅区紧接gao1su4 gong1lu4.	The new housing estate borders on the motorway.
羽毛球	我喜欢在闲暇时打yu3mao2qiu2。	I like to play badminton in my spare time.
排列	这些项目是根据其重要性pai2lie4的。	The items are listed in order of importance.
乒乓球	他爱好打ping1pang1qiu2。	He is keen on table-tennis.
烤鸭	他最喜欢吃的菜是kao3ya1。	His favorite dish is roast duck.
硕士	他是理科shuo4shi4。	He is a Master of Science.
凉快	我想进村林子里去liang2kuai4一下	I'm going into the wood to cool off.
复印	请你把这封信fu4yin4一份好吗？	Could you Xerox this letter please?
粗心	他因cu1xin1受到警告。	He was admonished for his carelessness.
橡皮	请准备一枝尖的铅笔和一块xiang4pi2参加考试。	Please equip yourself with a sharp pencil and a rubber for the exam.
应聘	本人欲ying4pin4今天＜中国日报＞上刊登的征聘行政秘书一职。	I am applying for the position of executive secretary, advertised in today's China Daily.
语法	你应该在课堂上完成yu3fa3练习。	You should finish your English grammar drills in the class.
售货员	老太婆一个个地数出三十便士给了shou4huo4yuan2.	The old lady counted out thirty pence and gave it to the shop assistant.
词语	她使用的ci2yu3未免太陈旧了。	She uses rather dated words and phrases.
国籍	彼得去年申请了英国guo2ji2。	Peter applied for British citizenship last year.
礼拜天	li3bai4tian1洗车怎么样？	What about washing the car on Sunday?
马虎	他父亲提醒他不要ma3hu1。	His father reminds him not to be careless.
流利	他操一口liu2li4的德语。	He speaks fluent German.
填空	请做这个句子的tian2kong4。	Please fill in the blanks in the sentence.
百分之	这个国家bai3 fen1zhi1九十的地方都是温带。	Ninety per cent of the country lies in the temperate zone.
啊	多可爱的婴儿a5!	Isn't that baby a dear?
把	ba3塞子拔掉.	Pull the plug out.
自己	他是zi4ji3掏腰包的。	He paid for it out of his own pocket.
只	我zhi3需要半数.	I only need half.
又	这房子you4冷you4湿。	The building was cold and damp.
被	决议bei4搁置。	The decision was set aside.
为	三英尺wei4一码。	Three feet make one yard.
如果	ru2guo3天气好，当然可以。	Certainly, if the weather is fine.
跟	请gen1我说实话。	Be kind enough to tell me the truth.
用	姓名请yong4大写.	Write your name in block capitals, please.
才	直到他来我cai2离开。	It was not until he came that I left.
更	你应该geng4用功念书。	You should study harder and harder.
需要	这xu1yao4时间。	It takes time.
起来	蛋糕发qi3lai5了。	The cake bulked up.
还是	你要有格的纸hai2shi4白纸?	Do you want ruled paper or plain?
一样	他能跑得和我yi1yang4快。	He can run as fast as I can.
发现	谁fa1xian4了能量守恒？	Who discovered the conservation of energy?
拿	他叫侍者na2菜单来。	He called the waiter to bring the menu.
应该	我看你不ying1gai1。	I don't think you ought to.
带	他dai4着姐姐一同去。	He took his sister along with him.
然后	先读课文，ran2hou4解释生词。	Read the text first and then explain the new words.
一直	她yi1zhi2想成名。	She has always been desirous of fame.
世界	shi4jie4上有七大洲。	There are seven continents in the world.
一定	我的钟yi1ding4是坏了。	There must be something wrong with my clock.
分	你太过fen1了！	You've gone too far!
放	那个孩子fang4了个屁。	That child has broken wind.
老	【谚】学习不嫌lao3。	You are never too old to learn.
相信	我xiang1xin4他的誓言。	I believe his troth.
最后	他们zui4hou4终于达成了协议。	Finally, they arrived at an agreement.
地方	城市之外的一个小di4fang5	A little place outside the city.
终于	我zhong1yu2看穿了事情的真相。	At last I divined the truth.
别人	不要干涉bie2ren5的事情。	Don't meddle with other men's business.
游戏	那些儿童分成小组做you2xi4.	The children were separated into groups for the game.
明白	你ming2bai5了吗？	Do you understand?
先	我xian1去定好座位吧。	Suppose I reserve seats in advance.
认为	你ren4wei2你能来吗？	Do you think you can come?
为了	wei4le5存活植物必须有氧气	Plants must have oxygen in order to live.
当然	是的，dang1ran2可以。	Yes, certainly.
张	能给我一zhang1纸吗？	Would you please give me a piece of paper?
重要	这是一个极为zhong4yao4的问题。	This is an issue of the utmost importance.
难	积习nan2移.	Old habits die hard.
位	那wei4技师技术很好。	That technician is highly skilled.
向	她xiang4我眨眼。	She winked at me.
离开	请马上li2kai1这儿!	Please leave here immediately!
必须	我bi4xu1记笔记吗?	Must I take notes?
城市	这个cheng2shi4没有盗贼。	This city is free from thieves.
而且	他不但英俊er2qie3聪明。	He is as clever as (he is) handsome.
条	两tiao2线相交。	The two lines cut across each other.
过去	他从人群中挤guo4qu4。	He forced his way through the crowd.
其实	我们的狗别看样子凶，qi2shi2很温顺。	Our dog may look fierce but he wouldn't hurt a fly.
发	用fa1油将头fa1抹平	Plaster one's hair with pomade.
元	可兑换成日yuan2的美金	Dollars convertible into yen.
记得	我ji4de5很清楚。	I remember quite clearly.
花	hua1发出一阵幽香。	The flowers gave off a fragrant odor.
机会	她觉察到她的ji1hui4。	She awoke to her opportunity.
只有	我们zhi3you3分类菜单.	We only have an a la carte menu.
照片	试用的zhao4pian4印相	A trial photographic print.
万	我的工资多达一wan4元。	I received no less than ten thousand yen for my work.
越	酒存放得yue4久yue4醇。	Wine improves with age.
参加	我及时can1jia1了会议。	I went to attend the meeting betimes.
以前	她觉得yi3qian2见过他.	She had the impression that she had seen him before.
总是	狼zong3shi4成群猎食.	Wolves hunt in packs.
双	云雀抖动它的shuang1翼。	The skylark quivered its wings.
其他	铜比qi2ta1材料导电性能好。	Copper conducts electricity better than other materials.
或者	他想当医生huo4zhe3经商.	He wants to be a doctor or go into business.
突然	小溪tu1ran2转向东流。	The stream takes a sudden bend to the east.
换	她走进内室去huan4衣服。	She went into the inner room to change her dress.
选择	他做了一个明智的xuan3ze2。	He made a sane choice.
故事	这gu4shi5的确令我非常激动。	I'm really very excited by the story.
努力	你应该nu3li4读书。	You should study hard.
完成	他们wan2cheng2了预备训练。	They finished the preparatory training.
站	她zhan4得不太稳.	She's not very steady on her pins.
决定	他对他的jue2ding4很坚定。	He is unmoved in his decision.
画	他的hua4在hua4廊展出。	His pictures were showed in the gallery.
担心	别dan1xin1，我会支持你的。	Do not fear; I will support you.
结束	他们决定jie2shu4彼此的关系.	They decided to end their relationship.
欢迎	他们热烈地huan1ying2主席。	They gave the chairman a tumultuous welcome.
久	书页因年jiu3而变黄。	The leaves of the book had yellowed with age.
关系	我与这外宾的guan1xi4很好。	I am on good terms with this foreign friend.
马上	我ma3shang4就来。	I'll be right with you.
接	她把球抛起又jie1住.	She threw the ball up and caught it again.
最近	我zui4jin4没有看到他。	I haven't seen him recently.
健康	吸烟有害jian4kang1。	Smoking is bad for the health.
半	现在想必是四点ban4左右。	It must be about four thirty.
容易	铁很rong2yi4氧化。	Iron is easily oxidized.
特别	我te4bie2喜爱集邮.	Stamp collecting holds a certain fascination for me.
关于	guan1yu2此事对他已免于处分。	He is exempt from punishment about this thing.
段	此duan4河流严禁外人捕鱼.	The fishing in this stretch of the river is strictly preserved.
比赛	bi3sai4後我浑身疼痛.	I'm aching all over after the match.
哭	大宝贝, 别ku1了!	Stop blubbering, you big baby!
音乐	奥地利以yin1yue4而闻名。	Austria is famous for its music.
愿意	你yuan4yi4帮忙吗？	Are you willing to help?
讲	她jiang3了一辈子中文。	She has spoken Chinese all her life.
了解	他liao3jie3这里的地形。	He knows the lay of the land here.
坏	我的电话huai4了。	My phone was out of order.
结婚	天主教神父发誓不jie2hun1.	Catholic priests take a vow of celibacy.
清楚	我不太qing1chu5。	I'm not really sure.
节目	这个jie2mu4在哪家电视台播放?	Which TV station is the programme on?
简单	这间屋子陈设得jian3dan1朴素。	The room was furnished in austere style.
注意	zhu4yi4你的浮子！	Pay attention to your float!
脸	多难看的lian3!	What an ugly mug!
办法	这决非解决问题的好ban4fa3。	This is by no means a good way to solve the problem.
礼物	多麽多的li3wu4哇!	What a lot of presents!
小心	xiao3xin1得肺炎。	Take care of getting pneumonia.
声音	那种sheng1yin1很刺耳。	The sound was very discordant.
包	他把bao1放在行李架上。	He put his bag on the luggage rack.
忘记	我们绝不能wang4ji4民众.	We must not forget about the grass roots.
害怕	我最hai4pa4他发怒。	I fear his wrath more than anything.
差	现在五点cha4一刻。	It is a quarter to five.
饿	辛苦工作了四个小时后，他觉得非常e4。	He felt very hungry after four-hours' hard work.
除了	他解chu2le5和她的婚姻。	He obtained the dissolution of his marriage with her.
习惯	你会xi2guan4的。	You'll get used to it.
帮忙	我们都bang1mang2收割。	We all helped the harvest.
打算	你da3suan4怎么办?	What're you going to do?
国家	谁掌握guo2jia1的最高权力?	Who holds sovereign power in the state?
刚才	别把gang1cai2跟你说的事忘了。	Don't forget what I told you just now.
米	花园的宽度为六mi3。	The garden is six meters in width.
遇到	我在街上yu4dao4他。	I met him in the street.
马	那匹ma3踢了我。	That horse kicked me.
解决	这些问题不容易jie3jue2。	These problems are not readily soluble.
脚	她光著jiao3四处走.	She goes about barefoot.
比较	这次考试bi3jiao4容易。	The exam was relatively easy.
头发	她拍落几绺tou2fa5.	She patted down a few wisps of hair.
要求	妇女yao1qiu2同工同酬。	Women demand equal pay for equal work.
疼	你手术後teng2得很难受吗?	Does the pain from your operation bother you much?
辆	这liang4卡车装载很重。	The truck was heavily loaded.
舒服	棉布比尼龙穿着shu1fu5。	Cotton is more comfortable to wear than nylon.
经过	队伍就在我家门前jing1guo4.	The procession passed right by my front door.
年轻	她nian2qing1时是个有名的美人.	She was a famous beauty in her youth.
关	出门之前把窗户guan1严。	Make the windows secure before leaving the house.
教	我jiao4她骑自行车。	I taught her to ride a bicycle.
办公室	ban4gong1shi4前有一丛玫瑰。	There is a rose bush in front of the office.
新闻	你看了关于选举的xin1wen2了吗？	Have you read the news about the election?
影响	酒精对司机的ying3xiang3很大.	Alcohol has a very bad effect on drivers.
奇怪	他有一些很qi2guai4的政治信念。	He has some pretty strange political ideas.
楼	电话在底lou2的小书房里。	The telephone was in the little study on the ground floor.
关心	我们都guan1xin1她的健康。	We are all concerned about her health.
聪明	他和他的大哥一样cong1ming2。	He is no less clever than his elder brother.
班	在那个ban1里我跟不上。	I was out of my depth in that class.
树	松shu4是常青shu4。	Pines are evergreens.
照顾	没人zhao4gu4这个病人。	Nobody looks after the invalid.
同意	我并不完全tong2yi4你。	I do not altogether agree with you.
经常	他jing1chang2患感冒。	He often suffers from cold.
一般	他们的新房子真像梦yi1ban1美好。	Their new house is a real dream.
生气	别为这些琐事sheng1qi4。	Don't be angry over such trivial matters.
船	他们把chuan2拖上岸。	They hauled the boat up the beach.
太阳	tai4yang2和煦地照耀着	The sun shone kindly.
回答	hui2da2用言语或书写的回复	A response in speech or writing.
多么	你看起来duo1me5健康啊！	How well you look!
安静	让汤姆保持an1jing4。	Ask him to keep quiet.
腿	她有着细长的tui3。	She has long thin shanks.
认真	他的答覆看来是半开玩笑半ren4zhen1的.	His reply was taken half seriously, half in jest.
检查	医生jian3cha2我的耳朵.	The doctor looked into my ears.
鸟	鹰捕食小niao3。	Hawks prey on small birds.
奶奶	nai3nai5简直不能相信这事。	Grandma could hardly believe it.
感冒	他gan3mao4了。	He caught a cold.
后来	他hou4lai2改信了伊斯兰教。	He later turned Moslem.
难过	他想到她已死去就很nan2guo4。	He was saddened at the memory of her death.
银行	我在交通yin2hang2存款。	I bank with Bank of Communications.
蛋糕	请给dan4gao1多加点香料。	Please add more spices to the cake.
见面	他们约定不久jian4mian4。	They made a date to meet soon.
短	他的头发已剪duan3了。	His hair has been cut short.
一会儿	医生yi1hui4r5就到。	The doctor will be here presently.
极	氢ji2易爆炸。	Hydrogen is highly explosive.
历史	人民是li4shi3的创造者。	The people are the makers of history.
几乎	他们ji1hu1被水淹死。	They came near being drowned.
一边	小棚屋在房子的yi1bian1.	The shed is to the side of the house.
变化	今年物价没显出多大bian4hua4。	Prices have not shown much variation this year.
附近	教堂在学校fu4jin4。	The church is close to the school.
同事	戴维和我是tong2shi4。	David and I are colleagues.
公园	gong1yuan2里有一个游泳池。	There is a swimming pool in the park.
动物	饲养员正在喂dong4wu4。	The keeper is feeding the animals.
热情	孩子们re4qing2地期待着晚会。	The children were eagerly looking forward to the party.
刻	现在五点差一ke4。	It is a quarter to five.
根据	声波是gen1ju4其振幅来测量的.	Sound waves are measured by their amplitude.
搬	他是四月份ban1进这所房子的。	He moved into this house in April.
爷爷	他ye2ye5快七十岁了。	His grandfather is nearly seventy.
迟到	谁chi2dao4谁倒霉！	Woe betide anyone who arrives late!
作业	老师正在评定学生的zuo4ye4。	The teacher is appraising the students' work.
灯	deng1发出暗淡的光。	The lamp threw out a dim light.
聊天	我没心情和你liao2tian1。	I am in no mood for chatting with you.
叔叔	我去我shu1shu5家。	I am going to my uncle's.
干净	一位护士来给他包上gan1jing4的绷带。	A nurse came to put on a clean dressing for him.
周末	你zhou1mo4计划做什么？	What are your plans for the weekend?
环境	她对新huan2jing4不习惯。	She is not used to the new environment.
层	大天使高阶ceng2的天使	A high-ranking angel.
文化	凡有wen2hua4的人都该一读此书.	Every literate person should read this book.
司机	si1ji1应该对这场车祸负部分责任。	The driver must bear a portion of the blame for the accident.
成绩	在他们的cheng2ji4中他有何贡献?	What share did he have in their success?
啤酒	pi2jiu3走了气了。	The beer is stale.
超市	这个chao1shi4附近有一个地下停车场。	There is an underground car park near the supermarket.
南	nan2看台上响起一片欢呼声.	A cheer rose from the south stand(s).
碗	他把食品存放在wan3橱里。	He stored foods in his cupboard.
地铁	我经常乘di4tie3去上班。	I go to work on the tube.
主要	空气zhu3yao4由氮气组成.	Air consists chiefly of nitrogen.
瘦	我上个月shou4了好几磅。	I lost several pounds last month.
旧	jiu4房大都潮湿.	Old houses are often damp.
洗澡	我每晚xi3zao3.	I bath every night.
蓝	嘿，lan2迪，你吃午饭了吗？	Hey, Randy, have you had your lunch yet?
骑	我教她qi2自行车。	I taught her to ride a bicycle.
新鲜	xin1xian1空气有益于健康。	Fresh air is beneficial to our health.
中间	现在有15分钟的zhong1jian1休息.	There will now be a 15-minute interlude.
裤子	这条ku4zi5我穿太紧了。	This pair of trousers is too tight for me.
方便	这fang1bian4得多了。	It's much more convenient.
满意	这项答复未能使他完全man3yi4。	The answer was not quite satisfactory to him.
东	小溪突然转向dong1流。	The stream takes a sudden bend to the east.
会议	他被选为hui4yi4主席。	He was elected chairman of the meeting.
鼻子	我bi2zi5痒痒.	My nose tickles.
邻居	那声音大得让lin2ju1讨厌。	The noise was so loud that it was a nuisance to the neighbors.
客人	房间里挤满了ke4ren2。	The room was crowded with guests.
帽子	你把mao4zi5戴反了。	You have put your hat on backwards.
角	一jiao3等于十分。	A dime is equivalent to ten pennies.
草	马在cao3地上吃cao3。	The horses are eating grass on the grassland.
放心	你fang4xin1好了, 本周末一定下雨.	You can rely upon it that it will rain this weekend.
阿姨	吴a1yi2要我们静一些，随后拧开了电视。	Auntie Wu asked us to be quiet, then turned the television on.
饱	丰年时人人都吃得bao3。	In years of plenty everyone has plenty to eat.
耳朵	他扯我的er3duo5.	He pulled my ears/me by the ears.
提高	政府准备ti2gao1利率。	The government is going to drive interest rates up.
练习	孩子睡觉时，不要lian4xi2打鼓。	You mustn't practise drums while the baby is sleeping.
经理	所有jing1li3的地位同等。	All managers are of equal rank.
水平	首先，画一条shui3ping2线。	First, draw a horizontal line.
面包	他在mian4bao1上涂黄油。	He spread butter on his bread.
数学	我的shu4xue2不太好。	I am not good at mathematics.
节日	圣诞节是基督教的jie2ri4。	Christmas is a festival of the Christian Church.
年级	他读三nian2ji2。	He is in the third grade.
饮料	那次宴会上有大量yin3liao4供应。	There was a liberal supply of drinks at the party.
体育	杰弗里斯负责ti3yu4新闻组。	Jefferies is running the sports desk.
冬	dong1天时湖面上覆盖着冰。	In winter the lake is covered with ice.
地图	跟著di4tu2上的箭头走.	Follow the arrows on the map.
裙子	她穿着一条细棉布的qun2zi5。	She wears a skirt of cambric.
发烧	他fa1shao1满脸通红.	Fever flushed his cheeks.
衬衫	chen4shan1一律九折.	All shirts have 10% off.
电梯	他按键招呼dian4ti1。	He pressed the button to call the lift.
冰箱	接通bing1xiang1的电源.	Connect the fridge (up) to the electricity supply.
打扫	这里你da3sao3过了吗?	Have you swept in here?
锻炼	duan4lian4可增进健康。	Exercise promotes health.
胖	那个外交官很pang4。	The diplomat is over weight.
信用卡	划入xin4yong4ka3的钱可以随时支取。	Money put into the credit cards is at call.
香蕉	xiang1jiao1、 苹果和橘子都是水果.	Bananas, apples and oranges are all fruit.
图书馆	我喜欢在tu2shu1guan3学习。	I like to study in the library.
矮	ai3小的人身材短小的人	A person small in stature.
自行车	我有一辆红色的zi4xing2che1。	I have a red bike.
中文	他一句zhong1wen2都不会说。	He couldn't talk a word of Chinese.
月亮	云彩把yue4liang4遮得看不清楚	Clouds blotting out the moon.
校长	xiao4zhang3训斥了那些男生.	The headmaster gave the boys a scolding.
熊猫	杀害xiong2mao1是犯法的。	It's illegal to kill a panda.
着急	不要zhao2ji2：这项工程会有好结果的	Don't worry: this project will come out in the wash.
爱好	我ai4hao4集邮.	My hobby is stamp-collecting/collecting stamps.
复习	留出星期五下午的时间做fu4xi2。	Friday afternoons are left free for revision.
起飞	你猜飞机何时要qi3fei1？	When do you guess the airplane will take off?
笔记本	吉姆把他的一切支出都记在bi3ji4ben3里。	Jim entered all his expenses in a notebook.
街道	许多灯照亮了jie1dao4。	The street is illumined by many lights.
季节	秋季是我最喜欢的ji4jie2。	Autumn is my favourite season.
一共	我们yi1gong4捉到10只金丝猴。	Altogether we caught ten golden monkeys.
空调	他给他的汽车装了kong1tiao2。	He equipped his car with air conditioning.
北方	公司想把总部设在bei3fang1.	The company wants to situate its headquarters in the north.
瓶子	ping2zi5里装满了水。	The bottle is full of water.
不但	他bu4dan4不承认，反而支吾其词。	Instead of admit his guilt, he prevaricate.
刷牙	我叫她去shua1ya2, 她就跟我顶起嘴来.	I asked her to go and brush her teeth and she just sassed me back.
护照	我持有法国hu4zhao4。	I hold a French passport.
筷子	中国人用kuai4zi5吃饭。	The Chinese eat with chopsticks.
盘子	他的pan2zi5里盛满了米饭。	His plate was piled high with rice.
有名	you3ming2的比萨塔是斜的.	The famous tower of Pisa leans at an angle.
公斤	她体重为60gong1jin1.	She weighs 60 kilos.
句子	你把这个ju4zi5中的动词丢了。	You have omitted the verb in the sentence.
请假	你介意我明天qing3jia4吗？	Are you mind if I take tomorrow off?
菜单	请把cai4dan1给我。	Please show me the menu.
爬山	因为热爱大自然，他常常去pa2shan1。	(Being) a lover of nature, he often goes mountain climbing.
个子	他ge4zi5小但身体很健康。	He was small and healthily built.
照相机	拍照时zhao4xiang4ji1不要晃.	Try not to jerk the camera when taking a photograph.
伞	糟糕!我把san3丢了。	Damnation! I've lost my umbrella.
黑板	hei1ban3在教室的前面。	The blackboard is in the front of the classroom.
感兴趣	我一直对心理学gan3 xing4qu4。	I am always interested in psychology.
词典	把ci2dian3时时 放在手边.	Keep your dictionary ready (to hand) at all times.
就	我这jiu4上路。	I'm on my way.
要	你yao4橘子水吗?	Would you like some orange?
吧	你宽宽大衣ba5.	Open your coat.
也	他ye3学习汉语。	He studies Chinese as well.
还	解铃hai2需系铃人。	It's better for the doer to undo what he has done.
知道	我怎么zhi1dao4。	How should I know.
到	我看dao4他就高兴。	I never see him but I am happy.
着	她打zhe5雨伞。	She was holding up an umbrella.
过	猪已喂guo4了吗?	Have the pigs been fed yet?
给	把这本书gei3她。	Give her the book.
对	吸烟dui4健康有害。	Smoking is injurious to health.
让	rang4我想一想。	Let me see.
得	她愁de5要命。	She was frantic with worry.
真	zhen1让我失望。	I'm very disappointed.
最	他唱zui4高音部。	He sings treble.
可以	这些药丸ke3yi3止痛.	These pills bring relief from pain.
次	他每天大便两ci4。	He goes to stool twice a day.
一下	我能试穿yi1xia4吗？	May I try it on?
因为	我不喜欢它yin1wei4很吵闹。	I didn't like it because it was noisy.
走	你zou3时别忘了锁门。	Don't neglect to lock the door when you leave.
别	bie2忘了锁门。	Don't omit locking the door.
两	他比我大liang3岁。	He is my senior by two years.
比	迟到总bi3不到好。	Better late than never.
一起	我们yi1qi3走进会场。	We trooped into the meeting.
快	伤口愈合得很kuai4。	The wound is healing fast.
已经	说不定他yi3jing1死了。	He may be dead for aught I know.
觉得	你jue2de5怎么样？	What do you think of it?
等	嗯，但是你必须deng3我。	Mmm, but you must wait for me.
从	水cong2洞口流出。	Water sluiced out of the hole.
开始	秋收即将kai1shi3。	The autumn harvest is about to start.
大家	祝da4jia1新年快乐!	A Happy New Year to one and all!
告诉	我恳求你gao4su4我。	I beseech you to tell me.
但是	它不会伤害你，dan4shi4农药会。	It won't hurt you, but chemicals will.
它	ta1不是手表。	It is not a watch.
每	糕饼mei3块20便士.	The cakes are 20p each.
为什么	我们wei4shen2me5要怕他呢？	Why is it that we should be afraid of him?
找	我正要zhao3你。	Just the man I was looking for.
新	我的钢笔是xin1的。	My pen is new.
出	血从伤口中涌chu1.	Blood was pouring from the wound.
时间	shi2jian1就是金钱。	Time is money.
可能	ke3neng2别处还需要它。	It may be wanted elsewhere.
希望	我们xi1wang4长期获利。	We hope to make great profit in the long term.
快乐	他是个和蔼而kuai4le4的人。	He is a friendly jovial fellow.
玩	我可不是闹着wan2的。	I mean it.
所以	天在下雪，suo3yi3我无法外出。	It was snowing, and so I could not go out.
问题	这只是时间wen4ti2。	It's only a matter of time.
孩子	这hai2zi5身上发烧.	The child's body felt feverish.
第一	星期日是一周的di4yi1天。	Sunday is the first day of the week.
错	不是我的cuo4。	It's not my fault.
事情	这种shi4qing5只能私下处理。	This sort of business can only be transacted in private.
问	警察wen4我是否有枪。	The police asked me if I possessed a gun.
非常	我fei1chang2偏爱甜食。	I'm very partial to sweet foods.
您	谢谢nin2，先生。	Thank you, sir.
件	你有一jian4黑夹克吗？	Do you have a black jacket?
准备	他们正在zhun3bei4考试。	They were girding for the exam.
送	心脏把血液song4至血管。	The heart pumps blood into the veins.
小时	六十分等于一xiao3shi2。	Sixty minutes is equal to an hour.
晚上	我明天wan3shang5来.	I'll come round tomorrow evening.
笑	他咧嘴一xiao4表示赞成.	He grinned his approval.
路	他在荒地里迷了lu4。	He lost his way in the heath.
意思	我不明白你的yi4si5。	I can't apprehend your meaning.
穿	她从不chuan1绿色的衣服。	She never wears green.
咖啡	她把糖搅和到ka1fei1里。	She stirred the sugar into her coffee.
进	他拐jin4了小巷。	He turned down the lane.
高	他比她gao15公分。	He is 5 centimeters taller than her.
帮助	我愿适当予以bang1zhu4。	I'm willing to help, within limits.
公司	gong1si1去年生意不好。	The firm did badly last year.
懂	你dong3挪威语吗？	Do you know Norwegian?
累	难怪他这麽lei4!	Small wonder (that) he was so tired!
生日	汤姆的sheng1ri5就在这个星期。	Tom's birthday is this week.
早上	我每天zao3shang5刮脸.	I shave every morning.
虽然	sui1ran2他严格，却富有同情心。	Stern as he is, he is full of sympathy.
上班	爸爸每天早上走路去shang4ban1。	Father walks to his office every morning.
身体	吸烟对shen1ti3有害。	Smoking is bad for health.
正在	他zheng4zai4开会。	He is in conference.
忙	这星期他会很mang2。	He is very busy this week.
起床	她一大早就qi3chuang2了。	She rose with the lark.
说话	熄灯後不许shuo1hua4.	No talking after lights out.
门	精通一men2外语难不难?	Is it difficult to feel at home in (ie confident when using) a foreign language?
卖	能劝得她把房子mai4了吗?	Can she be persuaded to sell (the house)?
眼睛	烟熏得我yan3jing5发痛.	The smoke irritates my eyes.
黑	hei1天鹅很稀有。	A black swan is rare.
远	我们绕yuan3道驾车回家。	We drove home by a roundabout route.
白	普通的bai2玻璃是透明的。	Plain glass is transparent.
票	股piao4按超出piao4面价值出售。	Shares are selling at a premium.
红	我记得她长着hong2头发。	I recollect that she had red hair.
鱼	他不喜欢吃yu2。	He doesn't care for fish.
房间	你们有空fang2jian1吗？	Do you have a room available?
洗	把这些衬衣送去xi3熨.	Send these shirts to be laundered.
休息	剧间xiu1xi5时更换布景.	The scenes are changed during the interval.
妹妹	坐在你mei4mei5旁边.	Sit beside your sister.
姐姐	你和你jie3jie5都这么说。	You and your sister said so yourselves.
往	请wang3这边看.	Look this way, please.
外	镇wai4有个垃圾场。	There is a refuse dump out of the town.
妻子	他和他qi1zi5葬在一起.	He was buried with his wife.
千	数qian1人死於这场灾祸.	Thousands died in the disaster.
雪	他在xue3中漫步。	He is walking amidst the snow.
哥哥	上个礼拜我还看到你ge1ge5。	I saw your brother as late as last week.
丈夫	她zhang4fu5睡得很熟。	Her husband was sound asleep.
药	这yao4没有效力。	The drug was of no effect.
近	他年jin4四十。	He is near forty.
考试	大多数学生通过了kao3shi4。	Most students passed the examination.
弟弟	别对你di4di5那麽刻薄!	Don't be so mean to your little brother!
机场	她匆匆赶往ji1chang3。	She hurried to the airport.
百	春雨带来了夏日bai3花。	Spring rains bring summer flowers.
慢	我的表man4五分钟。	My watch is five minutes slow.
好吃	这种菜hao3chi1不好做.	This dish is delicious but rather a trouble to prepare.
去年	他qu4nian2入党了。	He was admitted to the Party last year.
介绍	她把我jie4shao4给她的朋友。	She introduced me to her friend.
运动	她喜欢各种yun4dong4。	She likes all kinds of sports.
旁边	我坐在他pang2bian1。	I sat by his side.
课	少女以前要上仪态ke4。	Young ladies used to have lessons in deportment.
跳舞	我tiao4wu3一点儿也不行。	I'm no good at dancing.
唱歌	人们聚集在篝火周围chang4ge1。	The men clustered together round the fire and sang songs.
颜色	你的衣服是什么yan2se4？	What color is your dress?
牛奶	niu2nai3可制成凝乳。	Milk can be made into curds.
贵	这本书可能有用，只是相当gui4。	The book is likely to be useful, only it's rather expensive.
鸡蛋	谣传近期ji1dan4要涨价。	A rumor went forth that the price of eggs would be raised soon.
生病	是什么使他sheng1bing4？	What caused his illness?
便宜	住寄宿舍比住旅馆pian2yi5.	It's cheaper to live in lodgings than in a hotel.
报纸	我从bao4zhi3上得知这个消息。	I learned this news from the newspaper.
教室	jiao4shi4被弄得乱七八糟。	The classroom was turned upside-down.
姓	请问尊xing4大名?	Would you give me your name?
右边	请你往you4bian5移一点好吗？	Would you be good enough to move a bit to the right?
零	达成和平协定的概率是ling2。	The probability of a peace agreement being reached is zero.
游泳	不要空腹时you2yong3。	Don't swim on an empty stomach.
火车站	我们决定立刻去huo3che1zhan4。	We determined to go to the railway station at once.
阴	天有点yin1，可能下雨。	It's a bit overcast; it might rain.
左边	这幅画歪向zuo3bian5了.	The picture is slanted to the left.
服务员	她是饭店的女fu2wu4yuan2。	She is a waitress in a restaurant.
手表	她总胡乱摆弄shou3biao3，结果把它弄坏了。	She fiddled with her watch so much that it broke.
跑步	她上大学时经常练pao3bu4.	She used to run when she was at college.
宾馆	我假期在bin1guan3里干活儿，当服务员。	I got holiday jobs in guesthouses, waiting on tables.
面条	他在mian4tiao2里放了些醋。	He put some vinegar in the noodles.
羊肉	哈吉司yang2rou4一种苏格兰菜，由绵羊或牛切碎的心，肺，肝与板油，洋葱，燕麦片和调味料混合在被屠宰动物的腹中煮熟而成	A Scottish dish consisting of a mixture of the minced heart, lungs, and liver of a sheep or calf mixed with suet, onions, oatmeal, and seasonings and boiled in the stomach of the slaughtered animal.
铅笔	石墨常被用来做成qian1bi3。	Graphite is used in making lead pencils.
的	天上de5云彩	The clouds above.
我	都是wo3的错。	It's all my fault.
了	你疯le5吗？	Are you insane?
你	ni3疯了吗?	Are you mad?
是	昨晚shi4满月。	Last night there was a full moon.
不	这门闩bu4牢。	This door won't latch properly.
在	谁zai4敲门?	Who is knocking at the door?
一	yi1个长途电话	A long-distance call.
有	她很you3头脑。	She has a good brain.
好	很hao3，谢谢。	Fine, thanks.
他	ta1心地善良。	He has a kind heart.
个	她是ge4好伴侣.	She's an excellent companion.
我们	wo3men5刚刚订婚.	We've just got engaged.
这	zhe4狗长虫子。	The dog has worms.
人	烦躁不安的ren2	One that fidgets.
会	你hui4滑冰吗?	Can you skate?
都	沟槽里dou1是泥.	The gutter has filled up with mud.
想	你xiang3喝茶吗?	Would you like a cup of tea?
吗	杏仁能吃ma5？	Are kernels of apricots edible?
说	你在shuo1什么?	What are you talking about?
很	她hen3会刺绣.	She embroiders very well.
和	她he2他订婚了。	She plighted herself to him.
什么	你做shen2me5工作？	What's your job?
来	凯特，到这边lai2。	Kate, come over here.
能	我肯定你neng2成功.	I have no doubt that you will succeed.
去	不值得我qu4乞求	It was beneath me to beg.
她	ta1高声呼救.	She called aloud for help.
那	na4可太妙了.	It was quite wonderful.
上	他跳shang4了桌子。	He jumped onto the table.
看	你得等一等kan4。	You will have to wait and see.
做	你打算zuo4什么?	What do you plan to do?
没有	我mei2you3心情工作。	I am not in the vein for work.
多	duo1足的有许duo1足的	Having many feet.
年	他隐藏了一nian2.	He stayed in hiding for a year.
大	da4封主作战行动。	Operation Overlord.
现在	xian4zai4再见了!	Bye for now!
太	我不tai4喜欢下棋。	I'm not very fond of playing chess.
呢	我才不信你ne5!	I can't believe a word you say.
怎么	他没zen3me5听讲。	He paid scant attention to what was said.
里	在窑li3烧制陶器	Burn clay pots in a kiln.
爱	老人有时ai4忘事.	Old people are sometimes forgetful.
点	你要吃dian3瓜吗?	Would you like some melon?
小	马在路上xiao3跑着。	The horse trotted down the road.
下	他跑xia4楼梯。	He ran down the stairs.
三	六除以二得san1。	Six divided by two is three.
今天	我jin1tian1的心情不好。	I'm feeling blue today.
吃	他很少chi1早餐。	He seldom eats breakfast.
时候	四月是种树的shi2hou5。	April is the time to plant trees.
喜欢	我xi3huan5滑冰。	I like skating.
喜欢	他xi3huan5自夸。	He's given to boasting.
家	我去我叔叔jia1。	I am going to my uncle's.
听	只剩下一ting1肉了。	There is only one can of meat left.
朋友	他向peng2you5倾诉烦恼事。	He confided his troubles to his friend.
谢谢	我很愿意。xie4xie5你。	I do very much. Thank you.
东西	先把dong1xi5堆在那边。	Just dump everything over there.
叫	人们jiao4她泼妇。	People called her shrew.
钱	出国要多少qian2？	How much does it cost to go abroad?
请	qing3把门打开。	Open the door, please.
几	我只耽搁你ji3分钟。	I'll only keep you a few minutes.
先生	琼斯xian1sheng5，一路顺风。	Bon voyage, Mr.Jones.
买	我mai3了一大捆萝卜。	I bought a large bunch of radishes.
回	卡车运hui2了许多砖。	The truck had carried back many bricks.
工作	她在剧团gong1zuo4。	She works in a theatrical company.
开	他们kai1我的玩笑。	They played a joke on me.
哪	你选na3本书？	Which one of the books is your pick?
妈妈	ma1ma5对我总是关怀备至。	Mother always cares about my studies.
住	你zhu4在哪儿？	Where do you live?
喝	我们he1了一些鸡汤。	We had some chicken soup.
明天	ming2tian1我们去采浆果。	Tomorrow we'll go to pick berries.
写	他既不会读也不会xie3。	He can neither read nor write.
爸爸	他ba4ba5坚持他们应该搬到乡下。	His father insisted that they (should) move to the country.
五	她养育了wu3个孩子.	She brought up five children.
些	你应该再细心xie1.	You want to be more careful.
岁	那孩子将满六sui4了。	The child will be six.
坐	他zuo4着埋头看书。	He was sitting with his head buried in a book.
怎么样	那儿zen3me5yang4？	What is it like there?
睡觉	有些人shui4jiao4时磨牙齿。	Some people grind their teeth while they are asleep.
四	我将等到si4点钟。	I'll wait till four o'clock.
本	ben3月份鱼供不应求.	Demand for fish this month exceeds supply.
分钟	他思考了几fen1zhong1才作答复。	He pondered for some minutes before giving an answer.
多少	他遗留下duo1shao5钱?	How much did he leave?
名字	你记得她的ming2zi5吗？	Do you recollect her name?
对不起	我只想说dui4bu5qi3。	I want to say nothing but sorry.
号	hao4手吹响了冲锋hao4	The bugler sounded the charge.
漂亮	这些织锦帘子很piao4liang5。	These brocade curtains are beautiful.
高兴	很gao1xing4认识你。	It's nice meeting you.
电影	我认为那dian4ying3不怎么样。	I don't think much of the movie.
认识	ren4shi5到他们的局限性	Aware of their limitations.
狗	老gou3学不出新把戏。	An old dog cannot learn new tricks.
中国	日本在Zhong1guo2的东面。	Japan lies to the east of China.
水	这shui3不宜饮用。	The water is unfit for drinking.
医生	你应该去看yi1sheng1。	You should see a doctor.
老师	lao3shi1赞扬了她的勇气。	The teacher praised her for her courage.
少	我们绝shao3外出.	We go out very seldom.
二	这er4人一见钟情。	The two fell in love with each other at the first sight.
儿子	我er2zi5上小学三年级.	My son's in the third grade.
看见	我亲眼kan4jian4他拿了钱。	I personally see him taking money.
块	这kuai4糕饼好极了.	This cake is heavenly.
昨天	他zuo2tian1没打扫房间。	He didn't clean the room yesterday.
冷	天气很leng3，不是吗?	Cold weather, isn't it?
哪儿	那个士兵告诉我们na3r5是步枪的击发装置。	The soldier told us where the firing mechanism of a rifle is.
衣服	她总穿着黑yi1fu5。	She always dresses in black.
喂	请帮我wei4我的猫好吗？	Will you feed my cat for me?
下午	我们在xia4wu3四点钟喝茶。	We have tea at four o'clock in the afternoon.
书	你选哪本shu1？	Which one of the books is your pick?
天气	我们等到tian1qi4好些再说.	We're waiting until the weather picks up a bit.
再见	zai4jian4，旅途愉快。	Good-bye, and have a nice journey.
七	世界上有qi1大洲。	There are seven continents in the world.
学校	下周xue2xiao4复课。	School reopens next week.
猫	沙发旁边有一只mao1。	There is a cat near the sofa.
小姐	xiao3jie5, 别对我这麽傲慢!	Don't get uppish with me, young lady!
打电话	我正准备da3 dian4hua4给你。	I was just about to call you.
电脑	我得到一台dian4nao3作生日礼物。	I'm getting a new computer for birthday present.
字	我正在逐zi4的翻译。	I am making a verbal translation.
电视	鸟停在dian4shi4天线上.	The birds perched on the television aerial.
北京	他来到Bei3jing1，想碰碰运气。	He came to Beijing to try his luck.
茶	我们沏了一壶好cha2.	We brewed (up) a nice pot of tea.
热	金属遇re4则膨胀.	If metal gets hot it expands.
医院	这家yi1yuan4有二百个床位。	This hospital has accommodation for 200 patients.
六	立方体有liu4个面.	A cube has six surfaces.
同学	他胜过他班中的tong2xue2。	He got the better of his classmates.
飞机	fei1ji1更改了航线.	The plane altered course.
读	他从头至尾du2了那书。	He read the book from beginning to end.
学习	xue2xi2代数很容易。	It's easy to learn algebra.
学生	xue2sheng5们排队取新书。	The students all stand in line to get their new books.
菜	这盘cai4配有什锦泡cai4.	The dish was accompanied by a variety of pickles.
八	这梯子有ba1级。	The ladder has eight rungs.
后面	太阳从云层hou4mian5露出来了。	The sun emerged from behind the clouds.
下雨	由于xia4yu3，取消了比赛。	Owing to the rain, the match was cancelled.
星期	这个xing1qi1我上夜班.	I'm doing night duty this week.
苹果	ping2guo3树正在开花。	The apple trees are blossoming.
没关系	mei2 guan1xi5。有什么事？	It doesn't matter. What's up?
中午	我们要在zhong1wu3前後走.	We're leaving round about midday.
九	我上jiu3点至五点的班.	I work nine to five.
前面	房子qian2mian5有一棵树。	There is a tree in front of the house.
水果	桌上有个shui3guo3盘。	There is a fruit bowl on the table.
上午	你弟弟今天shang4wu3在公园玩耍吗？	Did your brother play in the park this morning?
出租车	他从衣兜里拿出一些钱递给chu1zu1che1司机。	He took some money from his pocket and gave it to the taxi driver.
桌子	她用拳头猛捶zhuo1zi5.	She banged her fist on the table.
椅子	他把yi3zi5从窗户中抛出。	He hove a chair through the window.
商店	孩子们假装开shang1dian4玩儿.	The children were playing at keeping shop.
饭店	请派一辆出租汽车到国际fan4dian4。	Please send a taxi to Park Hotel.
杯子	这只bei1zi5是不锈钢做的。	This cup is made of stainless steel.
一点儿	我yi1dian3r5也不行。	I'm no good.
米饭	在mi3fan4上撒点盐.	Sprinkle a little salt on the rice.
汉语	你我都不会说han4yu3.	You're no more capable of speaking Chinese than I am.
没	mei2人理睬他。	Nobody speaks to him.
他们	ta1men5挥手告别.	They waved farewell.
天	喔！多累的一tian1！	Oh, what a tiring day!
你们	ni3men5有雨衣存货吗?	Do you stock raincoats?
这个	你zhe4ge5叛徒！	You Judas!
事	这是常有的shi4。	These things happen all the time.
中	他怒火zhong1烧.	He was boiling (over) with rage.
微	这地wei1向南面倾斜。	The land dips gently to the south.
博	安妮·bo2林於1536年被斩首.	Anne Boleyn was beheaded in 1536.
但	她虽疲劳dan4仍继续工作。	She kept on working although she was tired.
这样	应该zhe4yang4做工作。	The work should be done in this way.
分享	我会让你fen1xiang3我所搜集的仅有的一些资料。	I'll let you share what little information I have collected.
这里	zhe4li3说的话必须保密。	Whatever is said here must be kept secret.
这么	别对你兄弟zhe4me5刻薄。	Don't be so unkind to your brother.
那么	这根本没有na4me5坏。	It's not at all that bad.
将	我jiang1听天由命。	I'll accept my fate with resignation.
话	这些hua4毫无意义。	These words are empty of meaning.
后	雨hou4气温下降了。	There was a descent of temperature after rain.
睡	她丈夫shui4得很熟。	Her husband was sound asleep.
打	我们da3棒球如何？	Suppose we play baseball.
时	这是革新shi2期。	It was a period of innovation.
该	你看我gai1怎么办?	What do you think I should do?
帮	你能bang1我一个忙吗？	Would you do me a favor?
起	那鸟膨qi3了羽毛.	The bird puffed out/up its feathers.
见	老板现在不想jian4她。	She's rather unpopular with the boss at the moment.
前	他用鞭子策马qian2行。	He urged the horses on with a whip.
新年	愿xin1nian2为你带来快乐，友爱和宁静。	May the coming New Year bring you joy, love and peace.
这些	zhe4xie1药对你有好处。	This medicine will do you good.
看看	来kan4kan5伦敦的名胜.	Come and see the sights of London.
是的	shi4de5，肯定的。	Yes, definitely.
回家	他下班hui2jia1了吗？	Is he home from work?
那个	na4ge5女人讨厌透顶。	That woman is a thorough drag.
心	忧虑撕裂他的xin1。	Anxiety clawed him.
可	吸烟ke3致肺癌.	Smoking can cause lung cancer.
那些	na4xie1玫瑰已经霉烂。	Those roses have been ruined by mildew.
信	我才不xin4你呢!	I can't believe a word you say.
出来	天上星星chu1lai2了。	Overhead the stars were out.
获取	咱们在huo4qu3更多情报之後再做决定不迟.	Let's postpone making adecision until we have more information.
回来	球打在墙上又反弹hui2lai5。	The ball hit the wall and bounced off it.
还有	我手里hai2 you3一些牌。	I still have some cards in hand.
车	礼拜天洗che1怎么样？	What about washing the car on Sunday?
已	雨季yi3来临。	The moist season has set in.
噢	‘你同意吧?’‘o1, 当然!’	`Don't you agree?' `Oh, absolutely!'
电话	她无意中打错了dian4hua4.	She inadvertently telephoned the wrong person.
手	他紧握她的shou3。	He held her hand in a firm clasp.
并	他们打败bing4赶走了敌人。	They routed the enemy.
一点	他到十yi1dian3才回家。	Not until eleven o'clock did he come home.
不错	你的眼力bu4cuo4。	You've made a good choice.
全	他是quan2队的主力.	He's the kingpin of the whole team.
找到	我zhao3dao4几个助手散发传单.	I rustled up a few helpers to hand out leaflets.
男人	女人多比nan2ren2长寿.	Women tend to live longer than men.
木	猎人藏在小mu4屋里。	The hunter hid in a log cabin.
今晚	我jin1wan3不想念书。	I don't feel like studying tonight.
名	这ming2士兵善于吹笛子。	The soldier was good at playing fife.
图片	她把tu2pian4贴在剪贴簿上。	She pasted the pictures into a scrapbook.
美	西湖mei3得难以描述。	The West Lake was beautiful beyond description.
早	今年树木发芽zao3.	The trees are budding early this year.
就是	【谚】意志jiu4shi4力量。	Will is power.
只是	你zhi3shi4说说而已。	You are just saying that.
这儿	zhe4r5不许讲话。	(There must be) No talking in here!
一些	已经出现了yi1xie1问题.	A number of (ie some) problems have arisen.
成	请把黄豆捣cheng2粉。	Please pound up the soybeans.
自	爱情zi4会寻出路。	Love will find out the way.
总	他在学校zong3打架.	He was always scrapping at school.
祝	zhu4你生日快乐。	I wish you a happy birthday.
好好	把床单hao3hao1泡一泡.	Give the sheets a good soak.
得到	你免费de2dao4它的吗?	Do you mean that you got it for nothing?
头	汽车在外tou2。	The car is outside.
算	你把结果suan4对了吗？	Did you get the answer right?
刚刚	约翰gang1gang1跟女朋友吹了.	John has just split up with his girl-friend.
过来	你guo4lai2试试看。	Come on over to have a try.
活	猫在戏弄那只huo2老鼠。	The cat is playing with a live mouse.
那样	你真不应该na4yang4做!	You shouldn't have done that!
以后	离婚yi3hou4，孩子由父亲监护。	After their divorce, the father was awarded custody of the son.
不要	请bu4yao4嘲笑他。	Please don't laugh at him.
出去	要么进来，要么chu1qu4。	Either come in or go out.
之前	烧鱼zhi1qian2先去掉鱼鳞。	Scale the fish before cooking them.
变	秋天时叶子bian4黄。	The leaves turn yellow in autumn.
今年	jin1nian2豆子丰收.	The beans cropped well this year.
那里	以前在na4li5有一个邮局。	There used to be a post office there.
句	请让我趁此机会讲几ju4话.	Let me take this opportunity to say a few words.
哪里	你去na3li5度假了？	Where did you go for your vacation?
勋章	他因勇敢而赢得一枚xun1zhang1。	He got a medal for his gallantry.
有些	you3xie1蘑菇有毒。	Some mushrooms are poisonous.
下来	她从梯子上xia4lai2.	She got down from the ladder.
好看	杏色衣服很hao3kan4。	The apricot coloured clothes look beautiful.
之后	大雨zhi1hou4常有彩虹。	A rainbow is usually seen after a heavy rain.
身边	在他临终时我在shen1bian1侍候。	I ministered to him in his last hours.
关注	希望你对此给予guan1zhu4。	I hope you will pay attention to this problem.
此	遇火灾时按下ci3钮。	Press this button in case of fire.
有点	他you3dian3疯疯癫癫。	He has a touch of madness in his composition.
美国	纽约是Mei3guo2的一个州。	New York is a canton of America.
晚	【谚】改过不嫌wan3。	It is never too late to mend.
等等	我们买了一些书籍、衣服deng3deng3。	We bought some books, clothes, etc.
房子	fang2zi5里面静悄悄的。	It was quiet inside the house.
上帝	愿shang4di4保佑你！	God bless you!
记	我必须ji4笔ji4吗?	Must I take notes?
或	荒芜huo4边远的农田	Barren or marginal farmland.
跑	男孩很快地pao3上楼。	The boy ran upstairs quickly.
无法	我简直wu2fa3叫她说话.	I can't get her to talk at all.
于	他正沉溺yu2爱情。	He is enslaved by love.
同	他们并非tong2宗。	They are not of the same blood.
发起	部队已准备fa1qi3攻击。	The troops took up offensive positions.
春节	感觉好像chun1jie2已经到了似的！	It feels like spring festival already!
受	他们shou4的惩罚太轻。	The punishment inflicted on them was too mild.
排名	我们队在上季度的联赛中pai2ming2最後.	Our team came/was bottom of the league last season.
怕	pa4这pa4那的人是软弱的人。	A fearful person is a weak person.
酒	他常带着一个jiu3葫芦。	He always takes a wine gourd.
如此	玫瑰花从未ru2ci3盛开过。	The rosebush was never so flowery before.
怎样	英镑的前途可能会zen3yang4？	Whither the pound sterling?
另	他受劝阻去做ling4一次的尝试。	He was discouraged from making another attempt.
如	洁白ru2雪""是明喻。	As white as snow"" is a simile.
里面	这大门是从li3mian4闩上的。	The gate bolts on the inside.
见到	我不愿再jian4dao4你！	I don't want to see your face!
歌	她独自哼着ge1。	She was humming to herself.
伤	他被子弹shang1着了。	He was hurt by a bullet.
这种	zhe4zhong3木材容易裂.	This wood cleaves easily.
杯	再给你倒bei1茶好吗？	Can I pour you another cup of tea?
加油	我们在给学院的棒球队jia1you2.	We're rooting for the college baseball team.
周	用意虽好, 考虑欠zhou1.	It was thoughtless if well-meaning.
今日	jin1ri4事, jin1ri4毕。	Never put off what you can do today until tomorrow.
边	池塘bian1有许多花。	There are many flowers on the brink of the pond.
各位	ge4wei4听众，晚上好！	Good evening to all our listeners!
来说	哪个科目对你lai2 shuo1最有趣？	Which is the most interesting subject for you?
下去	船翻身沉了xia4qu4。	The ship rolled over and sank.
忘	别wang4了带上你的钓具。	Don't forget to bring your fishing tackle.
天下	他称霸tian1xia4。	His power sways the world.
未	注意，油漆wei4干!	Mind the wet paint!
真是	你zhen1shi5太好了。	You're just wonderful.
抽	他用鞭子轻轻chou1马.	He flicked the horse with his whip/flicked his whip at the horse.
回去	hui2qu4? 我宁可移居海外也不hui2qu4!	Go back there? I'd sooner emigrate!
昨晚	我们zuo2wan3畅饮了一次酒。	We quaffed wine last night.
眼	他是近视yan3。	He is shortsighted.
部	他的肺bu4不健康.	His lungs were unsound.
想到	我很xiang3dao4国外去读书。	I have a good mind to study abroad.
唱	他chang4最高音部。	He sings treble.
床	你会开车chuang2吗?	Do you know how to work a lathe?
看来	这地kan4lai2适合长蘑菇.	This looks a likely field for mushrooms.
愿	yuan4您早日康复！	May you recover soon!
人们	ren2men5涌出了车站.	People were streaming out of the station.
真心	她zhen1xin1真意的帮助我。	She helps me with heartfelt feeling.
变成	水受热bian4cheng2水蒸汽。	Heat evaporates water into steam.
听到	你能ting1dao4晨钟响吗?	Can you hear the morning bell ringing?
级	这梯子有八ji2。	The ladder has eight rungs.
打开	他们da3kai1水库的闸门。	They open the sluice gates of reservoir.
管	有警方guan3执法.	The police are there to enforce the law.
声	有轻轻的敲门sheng1。	There is a light rap at the door.
天天	城里的交通tian1tian1堵塞。	Traffic jams in the town happen everyday.
选	他被xuan3为总统候xuan3人。	He was elected presidential candidate.
跳	他惊慌地tiao4了起来.	He jumped up in alarm.
加	在总数上再jia19.	Add 9 to the total.
彩色	你有cai3se4电视机吗？	Do you have a color TV set?
越来越	他酗酒yue4lai2yue4成问题了。	His drinking is getting to be a problem.
回到	她急于想hui2dao4家里。	She was anxious to get home.
外面	学校就位于镇子的wai4mian5。	The school is situated just outside the town.
亲	这是他的qin1笔画。	This is a picture of his own painting.
父母	她将我介绍给她的fu4-mu3。	She introduced me to her parents.
定	那匹马赢ding4了。	That horse is a certainty.
学	他自幼xue2小提琴.	He learned to fiddle as a young boy.
疯	这种噪声快要把我逼feng1了.	That noise is driving/sending me up the wall.
那儿	na4r5有些彩色的气球。	There are some color balloons.
令	这故事的确ling4我非常激动。	I'm really very excited by the story.
强	铜的导电性比铁qiang2。	Copper conducts electricity better than iron does.
加入	他jia1ru4自由主义的阵营。	He camped on the liberal side.
处	月球现chu4於下弦.	The moon is in its last quarter.
不同	现代的人想法bu4tong2。	People today think differently.
曾	报告披露他ceng2坐过牢。	The report disclosed that he had served in prison.
进入	窃贼偷偷jin4ru4那所房子。	The burglars had entered the house by stealth.
没什么	哦，实际上mei2 shen2me5。	Oh, nothing to it, actually.
其	【谚】蓄物必有qi2用。	Lay things by, they many come to use.
收到	我至今尚未shou1dao4他的信.	I haven't received a letter from him yet.
有人	街上you3ren2闹事.	There's rioting in the streets.
之间	他们zhi1jian1的交易告吹了。	The transaction between them was dismissed.
初	春天嫩芽chu1绽。	The new buds appear in the spring.
能够	我neng2gou4熟练操作计算机。	I am skilled in operating a computer.
球	他尽力触到了qiu2.	He managed to get a touch to the ball.
面	这是mian4凸mian4镜。	This is a convex mirror.
身	我混shen1都在发抖。	I'm shaking like a leaf.
图	这笔生意是无利可tu2的。	This business is unprofitable.
寻	爱情自会xun2出路。	Love will find out the way.
感到	他gan3dao4肩膀隐隐作痛。	He felt a dull ache in his shoulder.
耕耘	那场运动后，自耕农再也不能拥有并在他们自己的土地上geng1yun2了。	The yeoman could never own and work on their land after the movement.
大学	她在da4xue2学习统计学.	She's studying statistics at university.
在一起	她把三幅布缝接zai4 yi1qi3。	She joined the three widths of cloth.
吃饭	chi1fan4前，我必须洗手。	I must wash my hands before dinner.
美好	现实生活并不象人们想象的那样mei3hao3。	Real life isn't as happy as people imagine.
逼	他们用武力bi1他就范.	They used force to persuade him.
谈谈	你能抽出五分钟和我tan2tan5吗？	Can you spare me five minutes?
听说	是的，我已ting1shuo1这消息了。	Yes, I've heard about the news.
不能	你bu4neng2自己去登山。	You can't go mountain climbing by yourself.
他妈的	你ta1ma1de5是谁？""他粗暴地问道。""你为何在这儿闲荡？""	And who the devil may you be?"" he asked truculently. ""What are you doing, hanging about here? ""
队	他是全dui4的主力.	He's the kingpin of the whole team.
身上	他问我shen1shang5是否带着打火机。	He asked me if I had a cigarette lighter with me.
查	cha2理一世遭斩首.	Charles I had his head cut off.
放假	小学生们正在fang4jia4。	School children are on vacation.
测试	该产品正在由我们实验室做ce4shi4。	The product is on trial in our laboratory.
进去	他将钉子完全打jin4qu4。	He struck the nail home.
王	英wang2查理一世遭斩首.	King Charles I had his head cut off.
痛	他的眼睛被烟熏tong4了。	His eyes smart at the smoke.
雨	这种材料防yu3。	This material is impervious to rainwater.
肉	鸡骨头上还可能有点rou4呢。	You might find a bit of meat left on the chicken carcass.
待	部队昨晚严阵以dai4。	The troops were embattled last night.
家人	她希望与jia1ren2团聚。	She hopes reuniting with her family.
想起	这个故事让我xiang3qi3了我的童年。	This story reminds me of my childhood.
进来	门一开, 她走了jin4lai2。	The door opened and she came in.
至	时钟鸣响报午时已zhi4	The clock chimed noon.
鬼	教士将gui3从房屋中驱走.	A priest exorcized the ghost from the house.
带来	暴风给成千上万的人dai4lai2灾难。	The cyclone brought misery to thousands of people.
该死	你这个gai1si3的大笨蛋!	You frigging idiot!
因	他yin1负伤而退役.	He was invalided out of the army because of the wounds he received.
好运	祝你下一次hao3yun4。	Better luck next time.
怪	你瞧那戴guai4帽子的家伙!	Get a load of that old bloke with the funny hat!
星座	北极星第二星的光度中的一颗星，位于小熊xing1zuo4把柄的末端，几乎位于北天极	A star of the second magnitude, at the end of the handle of the Little Dipper and almost at the north celestial pole.
想要	我xiang3yao4一桶牛奶。	I want a pail of milk.
乐园	香港是旅游者的le4yuan2。	Hong Kong is a travellers' paradise.
乱世	他们放了录像片《luan4shi4佳人》。	They showed a video of ""Gone with the Wind"".
款	帐kuan3共计30英镑.	The bill came to 30.
线	凹圆形凹陷的xian4脚	A concave molding.
惊喜	这真是个意外的jing1xi3！	What an unexpected pleasure!
既	他ji4不会读也不会写。	He can neither read nor write.
气	啤酒走了qi4了。	The beer is stale.
怎么办	我不知道该zen3me5 ban4。	I have no idea what to do.
牛	母niu2流产了。	The cow cast her calf.
必	违法者bi4受惩罚.	You cannot break the law with impunity.
阿	古希腊人为爱神a1弗罗狄特造了许多神庙。	The ancient Greek dedicated many shrines to Aphrodite.
神	他们跪拜诸shen2。	They knelt in adoration of their gods.
上面	最shang4mian5的抽屉是放刀叉的。	The top drawer is the one with the cutlery in.
多久	卸货需要duo1 jiu3？	How long will the discharge of the cargo take?
留下	它于桌面上liu2xia4伤痕。	It made a scar on the table.
饭	那顿fan4简直好极了。	That meal was simply divine!
夜间	这些动物仅在ye4jian1才出来.	These animals only come out at night.
学会	孩子们应xue2hui4储蓄。	Children should learn to save.
山	她把shan1羊毛纺成毛线.	She spins goat's hair into wool/spins wool from goat's hair.
一半	车子毁了yi1ban4。	Half the car was damaged.
若	她此刻ruo4有所思.	Something seems to be preoccupying her at the moment.
街	那条jie1经常交通阻塞。	There is always traffic congestion in that street.
男孩	这个nan2hai2埋头读书。	The boy buried himself in his books.
那边	na4bian1的那个人是谁？	Who is that over there?
小孩	xiao3hai2有柔软的身体。	Little babies have lithe bodies.
约	那楝房屋下陷yue1十公分。	The house has sunk about ten centimeters.
好多	吃了一顿好饭，他的脾气变得hao3duo1了。	A good meal sweetened his temper.
即	她生来ji2哑.	She's been dumb from birth.
病	她bing4後仍很虚弱.	She was still weak after her illness.
员	民兵民兵织中的一yuan2	A man who is a member of a militia.
扑克	桥牌、 pu1ke4和惠斯特都是纸牌游戏.	Bridge, poker and whist are card-games.
长官	地方zhang3guan1发布哀悼一日的命令.	The governor decreed a day of mourning.
错过	我不幸cuo4guo4了末班火车。	Unfortunately, I missed the last train.
作	有炸鸡肉zuo4晚餐。	There was fried chicken for dinner.
想法	他的xiang3fa5和我的不一致。	His ideas do not conform to mine.
特	这种行为是雄性te4有的吗?	Is this behaviour typical of the male sex?
射	树叶使光线漫she4。	The light was diffused by the leaves.
常	这是chang2有的事。	These things happen all the time.
觉	狗有敏锐的jue2	Dogs have a keen scent.
出门	chu1men2前你应该把房间收拾整齐。	You should straighten up your room before going out.
尽	我正在jin3力学英语。	I'm trying to learn English.
小小	我对座次表作了xiao3xiao3的调整。	I've made a few minor adjustments to the seating plan.
别的	杜鹃在bie2de5鸟巢中产卵.	The cuckoo lays its eggs in other birds' nests.
烧	shao1热的钢淬火使它坚硬。	Hot steel is quenched to harden it.
飞	老鹰抓住小鸡fei1走了。	The hawk snatched the chicken and flew away.
做到	那种工作不可能zuo4dao4十全十美.	Perfection is impossible to achieve in that kind of work.
案子	他们就这个an4zi5辩论了几个小时。	They argued the case for hours.
按	他an4定量发水给水手们。	He rationed out the water to the sailors.
长大	他zhang3da4了，穿剩下的衣服就给了他的弟弟。	As he grew up he passed on his clothes to his younger brother.
大吉	我预祝大家岁首da4ji2。	I wish everybody good luck at the beginning of the year.
好久	我hao3jiu3没有见到查理了。	I haven't seen Charlie for a dog's age.
记住	ji4zhu4, 火车半夜离开。	Please bear in mind that the train leaves at midnight.
替	去ti4我装满一桶水来。	Go and fill this bucket with water for me.
金	铜和jin1都是jin1属。	Copper and gold are both metals.
慢慢	伤口man4man4愈合了.	The wound was healing slowly.
美元	你能借给我五mei3yuan2吗？	Can you lend me five dollars?
风	寒feng1掠过平原.	Cold winds swept the plains.
来到	一个流浪汉lai2dao4门前讨饭吃。	A tramp come to the door and ask for food.
内心	人应当倾听自己的nei4xin1感觉。	He should listen to his intimate feelings.
醒来	我xing3lai2时已是白天.	When I woke up, it was already day.
糟	事情并非像你想的那麽zao1。	Buck up! Things aren't as bad as you think.
有时候	留心那条狗, you3shi2hou5咬人.	Be careful of the dog; it sometimes bites people.
羊	【谚】蠢yang2才向狼忏悔。	It is a foolish sheep that makes the wolf his confessor.
法	新fa3例广获赞同.	The new laws gained widespread acceptance.
下面	他把凳子推到桌子xia4mian5。	He pushed the stool under the table.
恩	这位导演想让迈克尔·凯en1主演他的新片子.	The director wanted to star Michael Caine in his new film.
子	注意你的浮zi5！	Pay attention to your float!
看上去	你kan4 shang4qu5心虚。	You look guilty.
家里	jia1li3现在乱七八糟。	Everything is at sixes and sevens in the house.
极了	那一击妙ji2le5!	That was a clever hit!
放下	知你平安无事才fang4xia4心来	It's a great relief to know you're safe.
玩笑	在演讲开头主席开了一个wan2xiao4。	At the beginning of the speech the chairman cracked a joke.
兴趣	对这类事情的xing4qu4慢慢减少了。	Interest lags in such matters.
命	请饶了我（一ming4）吧!	Please spare (ie don't kill) me!
日本	船起航前往Ri4ben3。	The ship launched in the direction of Japan.
养	我yang3了一些小鸡当宠物。	I breed some chicks for pets.
小子	这懒xiao3zi5一整天一点事都没干。	The lazy boy has not done a stroke of work all day.
藏	我不下令就cang2著别动.	Stay hidden until I give the word.
再次	很高兴zai4ci4见到你。	I'm glad to see you again.
的话	我收回我说de5hua4。	I take back what I said.
主角	影片的女zhu3jue2是一位老妇人。	The heroine of the film is an aged woman.
卡	有根鱼骨头ka3在我的喉咙里。	I've got a fish bone stuck in my throat.
面前	在困难mian4qian2我们决不退缩。	We never flinch from difficulties.
操	他cao1一口流利的德语。	He speaks fluent German.
犯	他们已fan4了叛国罪。	They have committed treason against the state.
城	cheng2里谣言四起.	Rumours swept through the town.
事实上	shi4shi2shang5，许多人身体都有某种缺陷。	As a matter of fact, many people have a disability.
抓住	她zhua1zhu4我的袖子.	She held me by the sleeve.
原文	对yuan2wen2的分析研究鉴定出作者是莎士比亚.	Textual analysis identified the author as Shakespeare.
录	家谱祖先lu4；家族树	A list of ancestors; a family tree.
就算	jiu4suan4你对，可你要论证这一点却非易事。	Grant that you are correct, you may find it hard to prove your point.
有时	他you3shi2非常仁慈。	He can be very kind sometimes.
礼	说话要文明有li3!	Keep a civil tongue in your head! ie Don't speak rudely!
有关	这些事实和此案you3guan1。	These facts are relevant to the case.
不行	瓶装柠檬汁可bu4xing2－－你得用真货。	Bottled lemon juice is no good you must use the real thing.
网	他把wang3球打过了wang3。	He hit the tennis ball over the net.
爱上	王子ai4shang5了一位美丽的年轻少女。	The prince fall in love with a fair young maiden.
杰克	jie2 ke4和安妮订婚了。	Jack and Anne are engaged.
剩下	现在付一半, sheng4xia4的以后再付。	Pay half now and the rest later.
点儿	一丁dian3r5声音就足以把他吵醒.	The merest noise is enough to wake him.
服务	这里的邮政fu2wu4很不可靠。	The postal service here is very unreliable.
事儿	我得对他们说他们被开除了, 我总得替老板（出面）做这种倒霉shi4r5.	I had to tell them they'd lost their jobs: I always have to do the boss's dirty work (for him).
入	无通行证者不得ru4内.	There is no admittance without a pass.
通	可变tong1的日程表	A flexible schedule.
早餐	我吃了两片烤面包当zao3can1。	I had two slices of toast as breakfast.
酒店	他们到jiu3dian4喝了一品脱的啤酒.	They stopped at the pub for a pint.
混	我hun4身都在发抖。	I'm shaking like a leaf.
纽约	我们在黎明起程, 直驶Niu3yue1。	We set sail at dawn and headed for New York.
绝	你jue2不能投降。	You can in no way surrender.
并不	他bing4bu4以这方面专家自居。	He has no pretensions to being an expert on the subject.
同样	我碰巧想到tong2yang4的事。	I chanced to be thinking of the same thing.
最终	士兵们zui4zhong1完成了耐力测验。	The soldiers eventually completed the endurance tests.
火车	huo3che1缓缓地进站。	The train slowly came to the station.
好玩	现代战争并不是hao3wan2的事。	There is not much comedy in modern war.
付出	人民不惜fu4chu1任何代价也要争取和平.	The people wanted peace at any price.
金币	很多黄金饰物回炉後铸成了jin1bi4.	Many of the gold ornaments were melted down to be made into coins.
性	德语中有三xing4。	German has three genders.
戏	我偶尔晚上出去看看xi4.	I enjoy an occasional night out at the theatre.
更加	黑暗会使他geng4jia1珍惜视力。	Darkness would make him more appreciative of sight.
赢得	他们瓜分了ying2de2的钱.	They divvied up the winnings between them.
自我	厚颜无耻鲁莽的zi4wo3肯定；厚颜无耻	Bold self-assurance; effrontery.
一路	那狗yi1lu4跟在我身旁边喘边跑.	The dog panted along (the road) beside me.
佳	步兵防守甚jia1.	The infantry is/are defending well.
成名	她最初是以当演员而cheng2ming2的.	She first made a name for herself as an actress.
房	旧fang2大都潮湿.	Old houses are often damp.
人民	ren2min2起来造反了.	The people broke out/rose in revolt.
鞋	他去掉xie2上的泥。	He removed the mud from his shoes.
笔	她继承了一大bi3财产.	She inherited a large fortune.
注定	每个人都是zhu4ding4要死的。	Everyone is doomed to die.
感	她gan3到了写作的乐趣。	She discovered the joy of writing.
黑色	她穿着一件hei1se4丝质晚礼服。	She wore a black silk evening gown.
拜	拉斯洛·bai4罗发明了圆珠笔.	Laszlo Biro invented the ball-point pen.
直到	zhi2dao4他来我才离开。	It was not until he came that I left.
眼泪	yan3lei4顺着她的脸流下。	Down her face ran the tears.
甜蜜	什么也不能推动一个按钟头收费的人，对他的平静的心情来说，时间的消逝是多么tian2mi4啊。	Nothing can move a man who is paid by the hour; how sweet the flight of time seem to his calm mind.
介意	雅典人不jie4yi4人家聪明伶俐，只要他只对他自己施展那份聪明伶俐的劲儿就行了。	The Athenians do not mind a man being clever, as long as he keeps it to himself.
不好意思	她显得很bu4 hao3yi4si5的样子。	She looked very embarrassed.
实际上	他shi2ji4shang4不懂英语。	He knew practically no English.
拿来	我请他去给我晚报na2lai2。	I asked him to fetch me the evening paper.
这边	请往zhe4bian1看.	Look this way, please.
付	今天我请客。我来fu4。	It's my treat today. I'll pay.
主	多好的zhu3意！	What a swell idea!
歌曲	他对所谓的流行ge1qu3很感兴趣。	He is very interested in what are called popular songs.
共	他的债务gong4达五千镑。	His debts amount to 5,000 pounds.
那时	我们na4shi2住在乡下。	We lived in the country then.
指数	减去食物与能源的费用以后——这两项每月可能大幅变动——成品制造价格zhi3shu4仍以略快的速度攀升百分零点四，相形之下，四月份仅上升零点二。	After subtracting food and energy costs, which can vary widely each month, the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods still rose at a moderately fast clip of four-tenths of1 percent, compared with a two-tenth rises in April.
算是	她suan4shi4当代最有才华的一位作曲家.	She counts among the most gifted of the current generation of composers.
聊	请他来坐坐, liao2liao2天.	Ask him to stop by for a chat.
狂	他噼噼啪啪地挥鞭策马kuang2跑。	He cracked his whip and the horses began to trot.
毁	车子hui3了一半。	Half the car was damaged.
惨	难民处境can3苦真叫我牵肠割肚.	The plight of the refugees really wrung my heart.
窗	落叶嗒塔地打在玻璃chuang1上。	The falling leaves pattered against the windowpanes.
冬天	dong1tian1多数虫子作茧。	Most worms cocoon in winter.
干什么	你拿我的毛皮大衣gan4 shen2me5?	What are you doing with my fur coat?
投	他对她tou2以锐利的眼光。	He shot her a sharp glance.
瓶	ping2上标明有毒。	The bottle is labeled poison.
易	氢极yi4爆炸。	Hydrogen is highly explosive.
类	油菜籽油菜lei4植物的果实	The seed of the rape plant.
准	我心里还没个zhun3稿子。	I haven't got any definite plan yet.
案	我要报一宗盗窃an4。	I want to report a theft.
不好	这把重斧头bu4 hao3用。	The heavy axe was awkward to use.
美人	殊品，完人，绝代佳人卓越无比的完美事物或mei3ren2；完人	A person or thing of unsurpassed excellence or beauty; a paragon.
开枪	他被暗杀者的近距离kai1qiang1打死。	He was mowed down by the assassin at point-blank range.
一举	这个女演员的第一部电影使她yi1ju3成名。	The actress won overnight fame with her first film.
懂得	我只dong3de5一点法语。	I have only a limited understanding of French.
仅	这些规定jin3适用于儿童。	This regulation refers only to children.
汽车	qi4che1的喇叭响了.	Car horns blared.
爹	我们有了孩子以后不可能再居住在单间套房里了，die1die1帮了我们大忙，把买房的定金借给了我们。	It was impossible living in a one-roomed flat after we had the baby but Dad pulled the chestnuts out of the fire by lending us the deposit for a house.
拯救	基督降世zheng3jiu4我们摆脱罪恶.	Jesus Christ came into the world to save us from our sins.
名单	请把我列入ming2dan1中。	Please include me in the list.
那天	元旦na4 tian1他们都感到宿醉头痛。	On New Year's Day they were all hung over.
地主	农民过去受di4zhu3的压迫.	Peasants used to be subject to the local landowner.
足够	他已学了zu2gou4的德语来进行会话。	He had learned enough German to carry on a conversation.
钟	我的zhong1一定是坏了。	There must be something wrong with my clock.
所谓	这种suo3wei4的大减价不过是个骗局!	This so-called bargain is just a con!
之一	法国是发达国家zhi1yi1。	France is one of the develop countries.
垃圾	苏看到到处是la1ji1很苦恼。	Sue was troubled to see trash everywhere.
大人	哟，da4ren5，你想找我茬，是吗？	Oh, Lord, are you going to get on my back?
为何	罗马帝国wei4he2衰亡？	What made the Roman Empire decay?
早晨	这是一个寒冷的zao3chen2。	It's a chilly morning.
假期	jia4qi1简直是一晃而过。	The holidays simply sped by.
广州	在Guang3zhou1下很多阵雨。	It showers a lot in Guangzhou.
乔	这件衬衫是用qiao2其纱做成的。	The shirt is made of georgette.
皮	墙pi2已开始剥落了.	The walls have begun to peel.
要么	你yao4me5自己来，yao4me5就托人办理这件事。	Either you come in person, or you entrust someone with the matter.
秀	他是那些天文学家中最优xiu4的一个。	He is the best one of those astronomers.
甘	他在生活中gan1居中游。	He prefers a happy medium in life.
开车	他因醉酒kai1che1被罚款。	He was fined for driving while intoxicated.
不少	孩子们早已吃掉bu4shao3食物.	Already the children had made considerable inroads on the food.
贴	她把海报tie1在墙上了.	She pasted posters onto the wall.
早起	他有zao3qi5的习惯。	He is in the habit of rising early.
不再	我决定bu4zai4追查那事.	I have decided not to pursue (ie investigate) the matter any further.
封	她给我拍了feng1电报。	She has clapped a telegram for me.
开门	我因为丢失了钥匙, 无法kai1men2。	I can't open the door because I've lost the key.
归	你要是赌赢这车就gui1你了。	If you win the bet, the car is yours for love.
爬	你能pa2过那堵墙吗?	Can you get over the wall?
有意思	头版上有些you3 yi4si5的消息.	There's something interesting on the front page.
不用	bu4yong4说他照例来得很晚。	Needless to say, he came late as usual.
排	孩子们整整齐齐pai2好队。	The children lined up in an orderly fashion.
刷新	那个德国姑娘在100米比赛中shua1xin1了自己以往最好的成绩.	The German girl improved on her previous best performance in the 100 metres.
病人	bing4ren2常常虚弱无力。	A sick person is often feeble.
脑子	他nao3zi5里装著许多问题。	Many problems occupied his mind.
谋杀	一连串的mou2sha1迫使警方不得不采取行动。	A sequence of murders had prompted the police to actions.
白痴	真是个愚蠢的bai2chi1!	What a stupid idiot!
躲	小偷在阴暗处duo3着。	The thief lurked in the shadows.
狼	由于他打死了不少lang2，他享有模范猎手的称号。	He holds the title of model hunter for the number of wolves he has killed.
半夜	这列火车ban4ye4出轨了。	The train wrecked at midnight.
传奇	汤姆把那所房子想像成有chuan2qi2色彩的废墟.	Tom visualized the house as a romantic ruin.
男朋友	她在给nan2peng2you5购买礼品.	She's buying a present for her boy-friend.
屋	猎人藏在小木wu1里。	The hunter hid in a log cabin.
每天	她mei3tian1早晨都梳辫子.	She braids her hair every morning.
浪	一股巨lang4从甲板上卷了过去。	A huge wave swept over the deck.
外套	他的wai4tao4和裤子不相配。	His coat is not in keeping with the trousers.
链接	这是一个应该避免使用的非正式术语。该术语有时用于一种逻辑元件，这种逻辑元件可以实现特定的功能或在变量之间提供lian4jie1。	An improper term to be avoided. This term is sometimes used to designate a logic element which performs a specific function or provides a linkage between variables.
晚餐	wan3can1后我们不妨离开桌子。	We may as well leave the table after dinner is over.
需	这些柳树xu1截去树梢.	The willows need to be pollarded.
般	雷鸣ban1的掌声打破了寂静。	The stillness was rent by thunderous applause.
圣诞	sheng4dan4礼物都用薄纸裹起来了.	The Christmas presents were wrapped (up) in tissue paper.
有的	you3de5人爱先做难做的工作。	Some people tackle the difficult jobs first.
那种	我知道na4zhong3感觉。	I know the feeling.
界面	jie4mian4在相关区域，实体，物质或阶段之间所形成共同界限的面	A surface forming a common boundary between adjacent regions, bodies, substances, or phases.
遭	窃贼zao1警方用计擒获.	The thieves were caught in a police trap.
随	虚弱常sui2年老而来。	Infirmity often comes with old age.
法官	他乞求fa3guan1开恩.	He appealed to the judge for clemency.
肯	你ken3出多少钱买我那辆旧车?	How much will you give me for my old car?
配	有咖喱的菜pei4米饭最妙.	Rice makes an excellent complement to a curry dish.
英语	她会说日语和Ying1yu3。	She can speak Japanese as well as English.
急	他的病让我ji2死了。	I'm worried sick by his illness.
从没	她cong2mei2吸取教训，不晓得分清善恶。	She never learned to differentiate between good and evil.
听见	他假装没有ting1jian4我。	He affected not to hear me.
杀人	他在短短的一生中, 从小偷小摸到sha1ren2, 什麽罪都犯过.	In his short life he had run the entire gamut of crime, from petty theft to murder.
快点	kuai4dian3吧, 你们这一对恩爱情侣!	Come along, you two love-birds!
英国	她的父亲曾是Ying1guo2贵族。	Her father was an English aristocrat.
天使	我的小女儿像tian1shi3一样可爱。	My little daughter is as lovely as an angel.
考	我认为我kao3得不错.	I think I did OK in the exam.
仍	他reng2是健康的典范。	He is still a fine specimen of health.
闹	注意你的举止, 别nao4出笑话来。	Behave yourself; don't make a fool of yourself.
切换	qie1huan4镜头一种中断电影的主要情节画面的连续性的简短镜头，通常用来描绘相关事件或可能同时发生的情节	A brief shot that interrupts the visual continuity of the main action of a film, often to depict related matter or supposedly concurrent action.
犯罪	他们通常不监禁初次fan4zui4的人。	They don't usually imprison first offenders.
按键	他an4jian4招呼电梯。	He pressed the button to call the lift.
停止	风暴在夜里ting2zhi3了.	The storm blew over in the night.
奖品	jiang3pin3授给了优胜者。	The trophy was bestowed upon the winner.
男生	本班nan2sheng1的平均年龄是十五岁。	The average age of the boys in this class is fifteen.
紧	他悲伤地绞jin3双手。	He wrung his hands in sorrow.
丝	她穿着半透明si1质长袍。	She wears a translucent silk gown.
泡	把这些乾豆子pao4一夜.	Leave the dried beans to soak overnight.
市民	shi4min2的情绪是赞成减税。	Sentiment in the town is now in favor of a cut in tax.
下班	你丈夫什么时候xia4ban1回家？	What time does your husband return from work?
普通	他不是军官而是pu3tong1士兵。	He's not an officer, but a common soldier.
上去	我们到草坪shang4qu5喝茶吧。	Let's have tea on the lawn.
香港	你喜欢Xiang1gang3吗？	How do you like Hong Kong?
强大	敌人以qiang2da4的军队围困城市。	The enemy beset the city with a strong army.
剪	钝jian3刀jian3不齐.	Blunt scissors don't cut cleanly.
悲伤	bei1shang1的往事令人断肠。	The sad past is heartbroken.
遇见	真想不到在这儿yu4jian4你。	Fancy seeing you here.
聚	滚石不生苔；转业不ju4财。	A rolling stone gathers no moss.
具	政府中较ju4影响力的圈子	The inner circles of government.
样	他的算术不怎麽yang4.	He's not good at numbers.
赛	【谚】慢而稳，sai4必胜。	Slow and steady wins the race.
代	dai4我向你们全家问好。	Give my best to your family.
古	gu3埃及人曾经拥有高度文明。	The ancient Egyptians had advanced civilization.
心里	她把那小鸟握在掌xin1li5.	She held the small bird in the hollow of her hand.
回头	史密斯一个hui2tou2球，打到了自己的三柱门上。	Smith played a turning ball on to the stumps.
送给	他song4gei3女友一束花。	He gave a bunch of flowers to his girlfriend.
遇	金属yu4热则膨胀。	Metals expand when they are heated.
叫做	你把这东西jiao4zuo4啤酒吗?	Do you call this stuff beer?
透	被虫蛀的被虫钻tou4或咬啮的	Bored through or gnawed by worms.
炸	爆zha4的力量把塔zha4得粉碎。	The tower was blown to atoms by the force of the explosion.
多谢	duo1xie4邀请, 我们改日一定应邀.	Thanks for the invitation; we may take you up on it some time.
最新	这种洗衣机是zui4xin1型产品。	This washing machine is the latest model.
理	查li3一世遭斩首.	Charles I had his head cut off.
一生	她yi1sheng1生活奢侈。	She has lived in luxury all her life.
舞台	小说常被改编为wu3tai2剧本。	Novels are often adapted for the stage, television and radio.
自杀	他一时想不开, zi4sha1了.	He committed suicide during a fit of depression.
心动	超声波xin1dong4描记器一种用来显示详细的大脑图象的仪器，利用超声波发送和反射的差异来测试并无伤无痛	An instrument that in a painless and noninvasive manner uses the differential transmission and reflection of ultrasonic waves to create a detailed visual image of the brain.
第五	di4-wu3在一系列或次序上di4-wu3个	The fifth in a set or sequence.
今	我jin1早头痛得厉害.	I've got a terrible head this morning.
路上	我走在田间小lu4shang5。	I walked on the path of the field.
到来	乌云预示着暴风雨的dao4lai2。	The clouds presage a storm.
波	发射以光线或bo1的形式发出和传播能量	Emission and propagation of energy in the form of rays or waves.
脑	nao3猝变智力的突然的、剧烈的病变	A sudden, violent disturbance of the mind.
福	【谚】傻子有傻fu2。	Fortune favours fools.
罪	我认为无知是一种zui4。	I guess ignorance must be a sin.
惹	她想方设法re3我发脾气。	She tried to needle me into losing my temper.
纸	能给我一张zhi3吗？	Would you please give me a piece of paper?
悬崖	汽车冲下了xuan2ya2.	The car plunged over the cliff.
建造	农舍是用木头jian4zao4的。	The farmhouse was built of wood.
明年	她ming2nian2选修法语.	She is taking French as an elective next year.
祈祷	民众不会qi2dao3，只会乞求。	Common people do not pray; they only beg.
放开	把狗fang4kai1，它已被拴了几个钟头了。	Release the dog. He has been chained up for hours.
哪个	你支持na3ge5足球队？	Which football team do you support?
心愿	我除了要通过考试之外，没有别的xin1yuan4。	I have no other wish except to pass the examination.
杀死	他被他的同伙sha1si3。	He was done away with by his partner.
架	我们遇到四jia4敌机.	We encountered four enemy aircraft.
人人	ren2ren2都知道她很有才干.	Her talents are well known.
中国人	Zhong1guo2ren2把莲花看作是纯洁的象征。	Chinese people regard lotus as an emblem of purity.
冰	覆盖着bing1的道路很危险。	Icy roads are dangerous.
书写	请于每段第一行缩格shu1xie3。	Please indent the first line of each paragraph.
姐妹	我是表兄弟jie3mei4中年龄最大的。	I am the eldest among my cousins.
无关	我挣多少钱与你wu2guan1。	How much money I earn is none of your concern.
法国	从Fa3guo2去订购一架飞机。	A plane is gone to order from France.
晚饭	wan3fan4我请客。	Dinner is on me.
一大早	她yi1da4zao3就起床了。	She rose with the lark.
早点	你要想看那场时装表演的话，就得zao3dian3儿定座位。	You'll have to book early if you want to see that fashion show.
年终	在nian2zhong1联欢会季节，晚上是几乎不可能叫到计程车的。	It's next to impossible to catch a taxi at night during the year- end party season.
落	水泥袋砰的一声luo4在地上.	The sack of cement hit the ground with a thump.
某些	mou3xie1植物具有药物效用.	Certain plants have medicinal (ie healing) properties.
盘	这孩子已经喝了三pan2粥了!	The child has eaten three platefuls of porridge!
红色	这本书有hong2se4的包装。	The book has a red wrapper.
修	我得xiu1xiu1表，它不走了。	I'll have my watch repaired; it doesn't work.
保佑	我老喜欢在礼拜天起程旅行，因为无论走水路也好，走陆路也好，教堂里的祈祷将会bao3you4我的整个旅程。	I always like to begin a journey on Sunday because I shall have the prayers of the church to preserve all that travel by land or by water.
世上	时间比shi4shang5任何东西都宝贵。	Time is more precious than anything else in the world.
雪花	xue3hua1轻轻拍打着窗户。	Snowflakes were patting against the window.
熊	那支xiong2已完全发育成熟.	The bear was a fully grown adult.
夏天	xia4tian1他总是高高兴兴的。	He's always full of cheer in summer.
青年	神父听取那个qing1nian2的忏悔。	The priest confessed the young man.
做出	法官将于明天zuo4chu1判决。	The judge will give his decision tomorrow.
运	【谚】勤力佳yun4之母。	Diligence is the mother of good luck.
挑	从六个里tiao1一个.	Choose one out of the six.
塞	水汨汨地从sai1孔中流下去.	The water gurgled as it ran down the plug-hole.
铭刻	那次可怕的经历ming2ke4在我的记忆中。	The terrible experience is seared into my memory.
文	他写作wen2或读散wen2。	He wrote a composition or (he) read an essay.
傻瓜	他无礼至极，竟然叫我sha3gua1。	He was impudent enough to call me a fool.
笨蛋	ben4dan4被看作软弱、傻或愚蠢的人	A person regarded as weak, foolish, or stupid.
流	木头在河上放liu2。	The logs floated down the river.
筹码	他一再重申他的立场，认为核子武器不可以用来当作国际谈判的chou2ma3。	He reiterated his position that nuclear weapons can not be used as international bargaining chip.
夜晚	ye4wan3我们可以看见星群。	We can see the stars at night.
不幸	一连串bu4xing4的事发生了。	A series of mischance happened.
精美	窗帘上绘有jing1mei3的花卉图案。	The curtains had an elaborate pattern of flowers.
坐下	他把裤子往上拉起，然後zuo4xia5。	He hitched up his trousers before sitting down.
笑容	她咽下眼泪, 强作xiao4rong2.	She gulped back her tears and tried to smile.
孤单	他的朋友很少，因此他的生活非常gu1dan1。	He has so few friends that his life is lonely.
牌	我手里还有一些pai2。	I still have some cards in hand.
撒	我儿子抓住我的手不sa1开。	My son grabbed my hand and wouldn't let go.
引力	他讲述了牛顿的yin3li4定律，给人以深刻的印象。	He discoursed impressively on Newton's theory of gravity.
相	试用的照片印xiang1	A trial photographic print.
疯子	那个feng1zi5开车开得太快了.	That maniac drives far too fast.
家族	那个jia1zu2拥有一座气派的大厦。	The family owns a lordly mansion.
踢	他把球ti1到看台上了。	He kicked the ball to the stand.
招	悲哀不zhao1自来。	Sorrow comes unsent for.
控	让碟子kong4乾.	Leave the dishes to drain.
蠢	【谚】chun3羊才向狼忏悔。	It is a foolish sheep that makes the wolf his confessor.
表	你记得biao3上的读数吗？	Do you remember the reading on the meter?
春天	chun1tian1树木发芽了.	Buds appear on the trees in spring.
晚会	wan3hui4推迟到8点举行。	The party was postponed until 8 o'clock.
碰到	没有人想peng4dao4麻烦。	No one liked to have trouble.
其它	她比qi2ta1人到得早。	She arrive earlier than the others.
反	你把帽子戴fan3了。	You have put your hat on backwards.
喝酒	过量he1 jiu3对你的身体有害。	It is harmful to your health to drink too much.
变得	官僚主义已bian4 de5僵化了。	The bureaucracy has become ossified.
台湾	玉山要比Tai2wan1的任何山都高。	Mt. Jade is higher than any other mountain in Taiwan.
烤	饼kao3胡了.	The cakes were burnt to a cinder.
今后	我们jin1hou4一星期没有见面的机会了。	We have no chance to meet each other a week hence.
加上	他的讲话文本得jia1shang4标点符号.	The transcription of his speech must be punctuated.
拖	tuo1了那么久，他终于完成了论文。	After much delay, he finished his paper at last.
难以	大家的反应如何nan2yi3估计。	It was difficult to gauge how people would respond.
此刻	这一问题ci3ke4使我们很伤脑筋.	This problem is exercising our minds very much at the moment.
仅仅	他jin3jin3是涉足政治而已。	He just dabbles in politics.
就要	眼看天jiu4yao4亮了。	It'll be daylight soon.
积分	微ji1fen1学数学的一个分支，处理单变量或多变量函数的极限、微分以及ji1fen1问题	The branch of mathematics that deals with limits and the differentiation and integration of functions of one or more variables.
之中	坦克陷入泥沼zhi1zhong1.	The tank (got) bogged down in the mud.
上学	她在约克shang4xue2.	She went to school/university/college in York.
白色	新娘穿一身bai2se4的礼服.	The bride was dressed in white.
预测	我能很准确地yu4ce4某事。	I can predict something with great accuracy.
或是	我们huo4shi4寻求供货，或者自己制造。	Either we will find a supply, or we will make the goods.
外婆	下星期我要去看我的wai4po2。	I will go to visit my grandmother next week.
现	xian4正在招募空军。	Now, men are enlisting for the air force.
全球	这本书被翻译成多种译文并行销quan2qiu2。	The book was translated into many versions and sold all over the world.
巴黎	飞机到Ba1li2开始降落.	The plane began its descent into Paris.
报	我要bao4一宗盗窃案。	I want to report a theft.
爆	他们bao4发出一阵笑声。	They burst into a spasm of laughter.
壁纸	bi4zhi3正在剥落.	The wallpaper is peeling (off).
悲剧	我喜欢笑剧而不喜欢bei1ju4.	I prefer farce to tragedy.
扫	她正把烟筒里的黑灰sao3掉。	She is sweeping the soot off the chimney.
变态	精神bian4tai4者一个有反社会人格病症的人尤指有侵犯性、bian4tai4、犯罪或不道德行为的人	A person with an antisocial personality disorder, especially one manifested in aggressive, perverted, criminal, or amoral behavior.
不到	她用的时间正好bu4dao4四分钟。	Her time was just under four minutes.
好几	我昨天买了hao3ji3本书。	I bought several books yesterday.
灭	他一口气吹mie4了蜡烛。	He blew out the candles with a single puff.
纯	这是一个chun2学术性的问题。	The question is purely academic.
高速	我总是由他联想到gao1su4汽车.	I always associate him with fast cars.
停下	他在讲话过程中曾ting2xia4三次等待掌声落下.	He stopped for applause three times during his speech.
距	极ju4；两极的直径	Polar distance; polar diameter.
大街	她在da4jie1开了一家书店.	She set up shop as a bookseller in the High Street.
意大利	墨索里尼一伙使Yi4da4li4倒退了好多年。	Mussolini and his group set back the progress of Italy many years.
缺	他一再que1课使人担忧.	His repeated absence (from school) is worrying.
睡着	他非常疲劳, 很快就shui4zhao2了。	He was so tired that he fell asleep quickly.
安	轮子an1正了吗?	Is the wheel true?
部落	那个印第安人是临近bu4luo4的成员。	That Indian man is a member of the neighbouring tribe.
爱人	我的ai4ren5很会做饭。	My wife is very useful at cooking.
压	温和的说服胜於ya1服.	Gentle persuasion is more effective than force.
炸弹	zha4dan4一会儿就爆炸了。	The bomb exploded in a twinkling.
特工	我们的一名te4gong1已叛变投敌.	One of our spies has defected to the enemy.
一会	那个疲乏的人渴望能休息yi1hui4。	The tired man craved for rest.
上课	shang4ke4时不准戴帽子。	Don't keep your hat on in class.
蓝色	我穿lan2se4衣服非常适合。	Blue is a very becoming color on me.
只不过	他zhi3 bu4guo4是照背讲义而已.	He's simply regurgitating stuff remembered from lectures.
通宵	要是你在晚上加足煤，炉子便tong1xiao1不会熄灭。	The stove will remain in all night if you put enough coal on in the evening.
白天	我们bai2tian1工作晚上休息。	We work in the day and rest at night.
发型	发梢向内蜷曲的齐肩fa4xing2一种fa4xing2，通常是齐肩的长发，头发末端朝里卷成自然流畅的发卷	A hairstyle, usually shoulder-length, with the ends of the hair curled under smoothly in a loose roll.
挤	你知道怎么ji3牛奶吗？	Do you know how to milk a cow?
地狱	人们对于虚构的di4yu4中的鬼神仍具有一种普遍的恐惧。	People still have a general fear for the imaginary infernal powers.
偷偷	他tou1tou1瞥了她一眼.	He cast a furtive glance at her.
他人	俘获者捕获ta1ren2作为俘虏的人	One that takes another as a captive.
东方	太阳从dong1fang1升起。	The sun rises in the east.
赌	我们就下次的选举打个du3吧。	Let's make a bet on the next election.
只能	他zhi3neng2靠微薄的收入来养家。	He had to support his family with his meager income.
冒	沼泽地里mao4出了瘴气.	A miasma rose from the marsh.
埋	房子半截被mai2在雪里。	The house was half buried under snow.
男友	他对女儿的新nan2you3极为反感。	He took a scunner at his daughter's new boyfriend.
之类	兰花和报春花zhi1lei4的野花越来越少了.	Wild flowers such as orchids and primroses are becoming rare.
回复	回答用言语或书写的hui2fu4	A response in speech or writing.
结	玉米不久就要jie2穗了。	The corn will soon ear.
拍摄	她pai1she4鸟儿飞行的照片。	She photographed the birds in flight.
当年	dang1nian2流落他乡的犹太人现在生活在以色列.	People from every country of the Diaspora now live in Israel.
泪	她lei4眼蒙蒙，几乎不能认出自己的儿子。	She could hardly recognize her son through the mist of tears that filled her eyes.
说谎	他存心shuo1huang3。	He told us a deliberate lie.
情人	那两个qing2ren2只是偷偷地会面。	The two lovers had met only by stealth.
罗	拉斯洛·拜luo2发明了圆珠笔.	Laszlo Biro invented the ball-point pen.
午餐	这些儿童在早餐与wu3can1之间有牛奶与饼乾作点心.	The children have a mid-morning snack of milk and biscuits.
等到	deng3dao4激动情绪平静下来再说.	Wait until all the excitementhas settled.
影响力	她落选後其ying3xiang3li4大为降低.	Her influence declined after she lost the election.
有效	这一法律古老但仍然you3xiao4。	This law is ancient but still extant.
价	法郎的兑换jia4要调高.	The franc is to be revalued.
熟	你的牛排要几分shu2？	How do you want your steak?
伸出	四面八方立即shen1chu1援助之手。	Offers of help are coming in thick and fast.
美味	一可口mei3wei4；量小味美的食品	A tasty delicacy; a tidbit.
大战	第二次世界da4zhan4使原子弹产生。	The Second World War brought the atomic bomb into being.
无敌	他的中国功夫是wu2di2的。	His Chinese kung fu is peerless.
星球	地球只是宇宙中众多xing1qiu2中的一个。	The Earth is only one of the numerous planets in the universe.
证人	zheng4ren5是一名在现场的记者。	The witness is an on-the-spot reporter.
铁	煤和tie3都是矿物.	Coal and iron are minerals.
摔	罐子掉在地板上shuai1了个粉碎.	The pot shattered as it hit the floor.
以上	他的一条腿从膝盖yi3shang4截去了.	His leg had to be taken off above the knee.
镇	那zhen4位於伦敦南面.	The town is to the south of (ie situated further south than) London.
此时	ci3shi2很难预料公司的前景.	It is very difficult at this juncture to predict the company's future.
正是	及时付款zheng4shi4我们所盼望的。	What we expected is nothing less than a timely payment.
三十	这个岛的纬度是北纬san1shi2度。	The latitude of the island is 30 degrees north.
教堂	房子和jiao4tang2是建筑物。	Houses and churches are buildings.
客气	她在电话中说话不太ke4qi5.	She sounded rather off on the phone.
鞋子	我这双xie2zi5完蛋了。	My shoes are done for.
无限	掌握wu2xian4空间的概念是很难的。	It is difficult to grasp the concept of infinite space.
公路	这座gong1lu4桥现在开放通行。	The road bridge is now open to traffic.
睡眠	你需要几个小时的shui4mian2?	How many hours' sleep do you need?
餐	这顿美can1塞得我的胃很胀.	The rich meal lay heavy on my stomach.
围观	警察告诫wei2guan1者, 不要靠近燃烧　的建筑物.	Police warned bystanders to keep away from the blazing building.
领	他已ling3驾驶执照了。	He has taken out a driving license.
黄	huang2水仙是水仙属植物.	The daffodil belongs to the genus Narcissus'.
电视剧	最近有关离婚的dian4shi4ju4太多了。	There has been a surfeit of plays about divorce on the TV recently.
分开	别都挤在一块儿, fen1kai1坐吧.	Don't all sit together, spread yourselves out.
独自	我想我不要du2zi4一人去。	I don't think I will go alone.
警方	jing3fang1到处搜查逃犯。	The police searched every nook and corner for the escaped criminal.
接到	一jie1dao4通知,我们就出发了。	We had to set out on short notice.
挖	小孩们在沙堆里wa1了一个地道。	The kid dug a tunnel in the sand.
加速	跑上楼梯时，心跳会jia1su4。	Your heart beat will quicken when you run up the stairs.
编	我bian1了一个花环。	I wove a garland of flowers.
大脑	da4nao3需要不断地供血。	The brain needs a continuous supply of blood.
还好	hai2 hao3我们没有跟着他。	It is just as well that we did not follow him.
望	终点已经在wang4。	The destination is in view.
乐队	市yue4dui4以国歌开始他们的演奏。	The town band led off by playing the national anthem.
援助	他们在走投无路的情况下恳求yuan2zhu4。	They invoked help in the desperate situation.
不必	你bu4bi4起得那么早。	You need not have got up so early.
订	警察ding4下了计划捉贼。	The police worked out a plan to catch the thief.
不在乎	我bu4 zai4hu5，就随你了。	I don't mind, just as you like.
签名	谁也没记著应当qian1ming2.	Nobody remembered to sign their names.
搞笑	这位演说者除了想gao3xiao4之外，没有别的目的。	The speaker has no other purpose except to make people laugh.
法庭	fa3ting2听取了证词.	The court heard the evidence.
背后	请在这张支票bei4hou4签名。	Please back the check.
金牛座	她有典型的Jin1niu2zuo4性格.	She is a typical Taurus/Taurean/has a typical Taurean personality.
财源	要是cai2yuan2不断就好了！	If only one had an unlimited supply of money!
物	这是一种抽象wu4。	This is a kind of abstraction.
饼	我们的狗喜欢用嘴接bing3乾.	Our dog likes catching biscuits in its mouth.
拼	比尔，请pin1这个字。	Please spell the word, Bill.
一一	他把名单给我再念一遍，我yi1 yi1进行核对。	He read back the list of name to me, and I checked them off one by one.
死去	她si3qu4的消息迅速传开。	The news of her death circulated quickly.
欧	这盘Ou1防风做的菜味道很怪。	This dish of parsnip tastes strange.
人品	他忍受对自己ren2pin3的攻击而不发火，表现出巨大的自我控制能力。	He showed great moderation in not responding angrily to the attacks on his character.
联邦	英lian2bang1在第一次世界大战前曾是一个强大的帝国。	The United Kingdom was a mighty empire before World War I.
多多	如有冒犯之处，请duo1duo1原谅。	If I have offended you, I ask your pardon.
再说	请zai4shuo1一遍。	Say that again, please.
读书	他埋头du2shu1.	His head was bent over a book.
评委	ping2wei3会即将宣布优胜者.	The jury is/are about to announce the winners.
技能	为钢琴调音需要专门ji4neng2。	It takes skill to tune a piano.
尿	有人相信婴儿的niao4是一种药。	Someone believes that a baby's urine is a kind of medicine.
屁	那个孩子放了个pi4。	That child has broken wind.
放手	他倾向于fang4shou3让他们干。	He was inclined to give them a free hand.
不许	他bu4xu3我单独一人走回家。	He wouldn't hear of my walking home alone.
受害者	尸体检验表明shou4hai4zhe3是被毒死的.	A post-mortem showed that the victim had been poisoned.
歌手	她充其量是个二流ge1shou3。	She is at best a second-rate singer.
圣	牧师在sheng4坛前行鞠躬礼.	The priest bowed down before the altar.
万事如意	我希望他在新的工作中wan4shi4-ru2yi4.	I wish him well in his new job.
退出	他让他的马tui4chu1了比赛。	He withdrew his horse from the race.
调	法郎的兑换价要diao4高.	The franc is to be revalued.
交给	她把信转jiao1gei3玛丽了.	She passed the letter to Mary.
午饭	我十二点出去吃wu3fan4。	I go out for lunch at twelve.
市区	如在shi4qu1电车或公车上找给顾客的零钱	The fare charged a passenger, as on a streetcar or bus.
靠近	她对我发出kao4jin4她的暗号。	She made a sign for me to approach her.
门口	men2kou3有个男人要求见你。	Some man at the door is asking to see you.
堵	你能爬过那du3墙吗?	Can you get over the wall?
拍照	来城堡参观者不得pai1zhao4。	Visitors to the castle are asked not to take photographs.
大哥	瞧霜da4ge1在窗户上绘制了多麽美丽的图案.	Look what pretty patterns Jack Frost has painted on the windows.
拿走	谁那麽讨厌把我的毛巾na2zou3了.	Some so-and-so has pinched my towel.
练	她的武术lian4到家了。	She is expert at Chinese boxing.
为止	把混合料搅拌到发起来wei2zhi3.	Beat the mixture until it has a light, puffy texture.
夫妻	并非每一对fu1-qi1都相称。	Every couple is not pair.
有所	you3suo3得也可能you3suo3失.	What you gain on the swings you'll probably lose on the roundabouts.
地上	他把地图平铺在di4shang5。	He spread the map flat out on the floor.
存储	这个水库是用来为我们小镇cun2chu3水的。	This reservoir is used to store water for our town.
谈话	和她tan2hua4是一种乐趣。	It is a pleasure to converse with her.
黑人	大多数非洲人是hei1ren2。	Most African people are black people.
较	风力jiao4弱，风向多变。	Winds are mainly light and variable.
下次	那位大使预期他xia4ci4派驻巴黎.	The ambassador expects that his next posting will be (to) Paris.
不够	汽车的汽油bu4gou4了。	The car is short of gasoline.
恶	那个邮递员被一只e4狗咬了。	The postman was bitten by a fierce dog.
情感	男子玩弄女子的qing2gan3是不对的。	It's wrong for a man to play with a woman's affections.
常常	微笑chang2chang2表示高兴和友善。	A smile often denotes pleasure and friendship.
帐	zhang4款共计30英镑.	The bill came to 30.
蛮	听起来你好象man2喜欢的。	It sounds like you enjoyed it.
竟	我真傻, jing4相信了他!	And I was foolish enough to believe him!
闪耀	灯光在黑暗中shan3yao4。	Lights flared up in the darkness.
吸血鬼	那个xi1xue4gui3依附于他人希望获得钱财。	The leech hangs about other people hoping to obtain money.
星星	天空中有无数的xing1xing5。	There are numberless stars in the sky.
骗子	那个狡猾的人纯粹是个pian4zi5。	This crafty man is nothing but a crook.
具有	这份职业ju4you3挑战性。	This career offers a challenge.
男子	她用伞捅了那nan2zi3一下。	She gave the man a prod with her umbrella.
心想	人生是一所病院，每一个住院患者都一xin1xiang3换自己的床。	Life is a hospital in which every patient is possessed by the desire to change his bed.
何时	这项新法律he2shi2生效？	When does the new law come into operation?
圣诞节	我将在Sheng4dan4jie2前后去拜访你。	I will visit you around Christmas.
掌	她把那小鸟握在zhang3心里.	She held the small bird in the hollow of her hand.
二十	er4shi2市斤折合十公斤。	20 jin goes to 10 kilograms.
讲话	她从容不迫地jiang3hua4.	She spoke with unruffled calm.
惨遭	昨天有两名游客can3zao1杀害。	Two visitors were brutally slain yesterday.
萝卜	人命与luo2bo5依然是多而且便宜。	Human life and turnip remain cheap and plentiful.
德国	她不只能说De2guo2话也能说法国话。	She can speak not only German but also French.
速	这些轮子须同su4转动.	The wheels must synchronize as they revolve.
守	安得猛士兮shou3四方？	Where will I find brave men to guard the four corners of my land?
食品	这种shi2pin3应低温保存。	The food should be kept at low temperature.
头像	英国硬币的正面有女王的tou2xiang4.	The head of the Queen appears on the obverse of British coins.
行走	由重重的xing2zou3或行军产生的声音	The sound produced by heavy walking or marching.
大部分	da4bu4fen5工作已经完成.	The bulk of the work has already been done.
从未	我cong2wei4见过北极熊。	I have never seen an arctic bear.
牙	有些蛇长有毒ya2。	Some snakes have poisonous fangs.
好听	这只夜莺夜里唱得很hao3ting1。	The nightingale sings sweetly at night.
开启	公务信件在早晨kai1qi3.	The office mail is opened in the morning.
战利品	劫掠物，zhan4li4pin3战时取自敌人的zhan4li4pin3	Plunder taken from an enemy in time of war.
玫瑰	他采了一朵mei2gui4给她。	He picked her a rose.
提出	他ti2chu1了一种新理论。	He put forward a new theory.
行李	他把箱子放在xing2li5寄存处。	He deposited the case in the left luggage office.
解	jie3铃还需系铃人。	It's better for the doer to undo what he has done.
语	你懂挪威yu3吗？	Do you know Norwegian?
静	她在树底下jing4jing4地坐着。	She sat very still under the tree.
股	一gu3冷锋正从北方向这里移动.	A cold front is moving in from the north.
村	全cun1的人都出来欢迎教皇.	The whole village turned out to welcome the pope.
小学	这所xiao3xue2附属于一所大学。	This elementary school is affiliated to a university.
桌	别乱动我zhuo1上的文件。	Don't disturb the paper on my desk.
河	村庄在he2对岸。	The village lies across the river.
暖	这个街区的供nuan3系统不太好用。	The heating system in this block doesn't work well.
伦敦	夏季Lun2dun1有很多游客。	London is full of tourists in the summer.
格	卢·ge2里克打一垒	Lou Gehrig played first base.
钱包	他把qian2bao1放在里面的口袋里.	He kept his wallet in an ,inside pocket.
少年	那群shao4nian2正合着摇摆音乐的节拍跳舞。	The teenagers were rocking about.
某种	手艺人熟练使用mou3zhong3手艺的人	A man who practices a craft with great skill.
胜	行动sheng4于空谈。	Actions speak louder than words.
扯	别那麽使劲che3书页，那会撕破的。	Don't pull the pages so hard or they will tear.
湖	hu2被树木环绕。	The lake is encircled by trees.
前进	我qian2jin4时, 你掩护我.	Cover me while I move forward.
林	甘蔗丛茂密的甘蔗lin2	A dense thicket of cane.
刮	大风gua1断了电线。	The heavy wind cut off the wire.
伤口	shang1kou3渐渐愈合。	The wound gradually scarred over.
迟	今天早晨我醒得很chi2。	I awoke late this morning.
取得	我们今年qu3de2了大丰收。	We have a plenteous harvest this year.
梦见	我meng4jian4我能飞翔.	I dreamt (that) I could fly.
凉	傍晚时地面变liang2。	The ground cools off toward evening.
旁	冠状动脉pang2通接合	Coronary artery bypass graft.
稳	小船wen3wen3地顺著运河突突地航行.	The boat chugged along the canal.
而是	不是父亲er2shi4母亲出席此一仪式。	Not father but mother was present at the ceremony.
大多数	da4duo1shu4手写体都向右斜。	Most handwriting slants to the right.
干活	他不得不忍住悲痛，继续照常在车间gan4huo2。	He was obliged to swallow his grief and work in the shop as usual.
购买	我已决定gou4mai3那辆自行车。	I've decided to buy that bike.
奔放	和谐一种饱满、ben1fang4的和音的流露	A full, rich outpouring of harmonious sound.
之外	除我zhi1wai4，他们都去睡觉了。	They all went to sleep except me.
舞会	他经常出入于wu3hui4。	He often shows up at balls.
精选	武夷红茶，红茶一种中国红茶，起初是jing1xuan3出来的高等级品，后来质量较差	A black Chinese tea, originally the choicest grade but later an inferior variety.
谎言	huang3yan2再多也掩盖不了事实真相。	No amount of lies can cover up reality.
约翰	yue1 han4攻读物理学。	John reads up on physics.
权	主动quan2已转到我方.	The initiative has passed to us.
分子	把这些捣乱fen1zi3赶出去。	Let's pitch out the troublemakers.
暖暖	保母抱著个孩子进来, 孩子身上裹著Nuan3nuan3的毯子.	The nurse carried in a baby wrapped (up) in a warm blanket.
死者	在si3zhe3胃中找到了少量的毒药。	Small quantities of poison were detected in the dead man's stomach.
好事	帮助盲人过马路是做hao4shi4.	It is an act of kindness/a kind act to help a blind man across the street.
头儿	其他共和国现在公开抱怨新俄罗斯帝国主义，同时以前的那些tou2r5们也假惺惺地为违反“人权”一掬同情之泪。	Leaders of other republics mutter openly now about a new Russian imperialism, while former chieftains shed crocodile tears over the violation of""human rights.""
播	他们已经在油菜地里bo1了种。	They seeded in the field of rape.
大衣	我的da4yi1完全湿透了。	My overcoat is wet through.
含	柠檬han2丰富的维生素C。	Lemons are rich in vitamin C.
血液	xue4ye4在体内循环.	Blood circulates through the body.
队长	今天这队的dui4zhang3是谁?	Who is captaining the side today?
色	杏se4衣服很好看。	The apricot coloured clothes look beautiful.
午夜	双方在wu3ye4停止敌对行动（战斗）.	Hostilities (ie Fighting) between the two sides ceased at midnight.
一早	第二天yi1zao3小船就沿河向下游驶去了。	The boat dropped down the river early the next morning.
停车	在这条街上ting2che1是此处居民特有的权利.	Parking in this street is the privilege of the residents.
英里	这两个村子相距三ying1li3。	The two villages are three miles apart.
年轻人	老年人通常比nian2qing1ren2保守。	Old people are usually more conservative than young people.
详情	议员坚持要充分了解政府计画的xiang2qing2.	Members of Parliament insisted on being put in the picture about the government's plans.
部队	bu4dui4进攻敌军防线.	The troops charged (at) the enemy lines.
街头	两个小男孩和一条狗成了jie1tou2艺人仅有的观众.	Two small boys and a dog comprised the street entertainer's only audience.
大大	打猎时他射下一只da4da4雁。	In the hunting he fetched down a wild goose.
做事	我确信他zuo4shi4真诚。	I'm sure he acted in good faith.
额	神父把圣水洒在婴儿的e2头上.	The priest sprinkled holy water on the baby's forehead.
隐藏	yin3cang2之处或藏身之处	A place of shelter or concealment.
陌生人	不要过份相信mo4sheng1ren2。	Don't be too confidential with strangers.
主持人	她是电视台的一名zhu3chi2ren2。	She is an announcer in TV broadcast.
虽	质量sui1差，但仍能接受。	The quality is not so poor but it is acceptable.
稍	医生说肝脏shao1有些毛病。	The doctor says it's just a touch of liver.
国内	他的工作是做guo2nei4贸易。	He worked in internal trade.
实验室	在shi2yan4shi4能够繁殖细菌和其他生物.	It is possible to multiply bacteria and other living organisms in the laboratory.
顺	小船稳稳地shun4著运河突突地航行.	The boat chugged along the canal.
起诉	我为索取债务而qi3su4她.	I took her to court for repayment of the debt.
足	多zu2的有许多zu2的	Having many feet.
追踪	我们趁黑摆脱了zhui1zong1的人.	We managed to lose our pursuers in the darkness.
有空	你you3kong4儿去吃午饭吗?	Are you free for lunch?
耐	它是一个中型的灰色绅nai4特皮箱。	It is a medium- size samsonite, and it's gray.
拳	当心我给你眼睛一quan2！	I'll smash you in the eye!
新人	公司在xin1ren2管理下就要垮台了。	The firm is going to pot under the new management.
大量	da4liang4地，大批地	In large bulk or quantity.
意味	他唯一的反应是一阵yi4wei4深长的沉默	His only reaction was a pregnant silence.
呜呜	wu1wu1声高速运转的机器的高且喧闹的噪音	The loud, roaring noise of an engine operating at high speed.
箱子	这个xiang1zi5有多重？	How heavy is this box?
指纹	她在枪上留下的zhi3wen2就是她犯罪的确凿证据.	Her fingerprints on the gun were conclusive proof of her guilt.
好莱坞	Hao3lai2wu1的演艺人才。	Hollywood talents.
罗马	开口问路，Luo2ma3可赴。	He who has a tongue go to rome.
虫	燕子以chong2为食.	Swallows are insectivorous.
支付	货款可以分期zhi1fu4.	The price of the goods is payable in instalments.
促销	商品cu4xiao1商品销售的cu4xiao1，如通过协调生产与销售以及做广告、办展览和制订销售战略	The promotion of merchandise sales, as by coordinating production and marketing and developing advertising, display, and sales strategies.
花园	给hua1yuan2施些肥料吧！	Do some fertilization for the garden!
绝不	一旦你养成了一个坏习惯，jue2bu4容易改正。	Once you have formed a bad habit, it is by no means easy to get rid of it.
头痛	他近来一直诉说自己患了失眠和tou2tong4症。	Lately he has been moaning about his insomnia and headache.
印度	Yin4du4在中国的南边。	India is to the south of China.
相机	一次成像xiang4ji1的问题在于没有底片，而其相片在数年内就会明显褪色。	The problem about the instant camera is the lack of negative, and their print can fade considerably within a few years.
寒冷	挪威人生活在比较han2leng3的地区。	The Norwegians live in a comparatively cold zone.
优雅	举止或风度的自在或you1ya3	Ease or cheerfulness in manner or style.
能否	我们neng2fou3将利润汇寄到国外？	Can we remit our profit to foreign countries?
电子	这台机器由dian4zi3脉冲信号操纵.	The machine is operated by an electronic pulse.
织	她未受纺zhi1之训练。	She is unbred to spinning.
眼前	从yan3qian2来看，这药可能疗效不是很大。	In the short term, the medicine may not be very effective.
整天	他非常懒惰，zheng3tian1睡觉。	He is a very lazy person, sleeping all day.
谈论	安不应该这样tan2lun4她的恩人.	It ill behoves Anne (ie She ought not) to speak thus of her benefactor.
转给	贵公司的样品已收到，现已zhuan3gei3用户。	Receiving your sample, we have show them to their buyer.
名人	当了ming2ren2的麻烦之一是在街上被人指指点点。	One of the penalties of fame is that people point at you on the street.
毛衣	她常常一边看电视一边织mao2yi1。	She often knits while watching TV.
瑞	哲rui4米是初出茅庐，所以我们并不指望他在这次比赛中表现得很好。	Jeremy's just being blooded, so we don't expect him to be very good at the game.
不见	小男孩在点名时bu4jian4了。	The boy turned up missing at roll call.
小组	那个专门xiao3zu3被选中参加讨论。	The panel was chosen to take part in discussion.
提升	这个年轻军官被ti2sheng1为上尉。	The young army officer was promoted to the rank of captain.
到家	杰克，你和我们一起来吗？""""不。不过，管它呢，反正我一dao4jia1就会遇到麻烦。""	Are you coming on with us, Jack? """"I shouldn't, but what the hell. I'm going to get into trouble when I get home, anyway.""
客栈	我们把马拴在桩上，走进了ke4zhan4。	I hung up my horse and walked into the inn.
友情	该团体的成员之间有牢固的you3qing2.	There were strong ties of friendship between the members of the society.
百万	我开支票提出一bai3wan4美元。	I checked out one million dollars.
观看	大群的观众到场guan1kan4比赛。	A vast crowd turned out to watch the match.
鲜花	五月里各种植物xian1hua1盛开。	In May, all kinds of plants are in full bloom.
金钱	jin1qian2不是一切。	Money isn't everything.
学院	她和我在xue2yuan4里是同学。	She and I were contemporaries at college.
登	戈deng1接近禁区了。	Gordon's near the penalty area.
码	三英尺为一ma3。	Three feet make one yard.
以下	请集中考虑yi3xia4问题.	Please focus your minds on the following problem.
冬季	老年人dong1ji4需要暖和的衣服。	Old people need warm clothes in winter.
衣	你宽宽大yi1吧.	Open your coat.
全身	突然他鼓起quan2shen1的劲，站了起来。	Suddenly, gathering all his strength, he stood up.
步步	假如我再容忍你下去的话，我可能会一bu4bu4退化至成为老婆也未可知。	If I continue to endure you a little longer, I may by degrees dwindle into a wife.
没法	布告贴得太高--谁也mei2fa3看.	The notice is placed too high nobody can read it.
哎呀	ai1ya1！没想到价格这么高！	Dear me, I didn't know the price is so high!
袋	我给他买了一dai4糖果。	I bought him a packet of sugar.
怪物	客迈拉一种通常被描绘成狮子、山羊和蛇的组合体吐火的雌性guai4wu5	A fire-breathing she-monster usually represented as a composite of a lion, goat, and serpent.
画面	装上新天线後hua4mian4清晰多了.	The picture is much clearer with the new aerial.
路过	他那时恰好从那里lu4guo4。	He happened to pass by there at that time.
车子	一行人分乘三部che1zi5。	The party separated into three cars.
邮件	转寄给我们的you2jian4晚了很久才拿到。	There was a long lag in forwarding mail to us.
璀璨	舞台和银幕上一颗cui3can4的星辰；历史上的辉煌一刻	One of the bright stars of stage and screen; a bright moment in history.
说说	他们shuo1shuo5笑笑，沿着海滩散步。	They walked along the beach talking and laughing.
来临	随着复活节的lai2lin2，冬天结束而春天来了。	With the coming of Easter, winter ends and spring comes.
电信	在dian4xin4发达的今天, 相距遥远已不再是什麽问题了.	Distance is no problem with modern telecommunications.
印	试用的照片yin4相	A trial photographic print.
婚	他hun1后过着合乎道德规范的生活。	He lived a moral life after marriage.
深深	我们shen1shen1感谢你的支持。	We are deeply grateful for your support.
陪审团	pei2shen3tuan2由12人组成。	The appeal jury is made up of 12 people.
发送	hour一字的开头字母h不fa1song5气音.	The word `hour' is pronounced without an initial aspirate.
凡	fan2得90分的学生列为甲等.	A student who gets 90% is graded A.
分担	他们平等fen1dan1家务.	They share the housework equally between them.
多变	微积分学数学的一个分支，处理单变量或duo1bian4量函数的极限、微分以及积分问题	The branch of mathematics that deals with limits and the differentiation and integration of functions of one or more variables.
封面	评定一本书，不能凭feng1mian4。	Judge not a book by its cover.
作战	我们必须和无知zuo4zhan4。	We must fight against ignorance.
用心	他皱著眉头yong4xin1地思考.	His brow corrugated with the effort of thinking.
剧	ju4间休息时更换布景.	The scenes are changed during the interval.
天亮	这个勤奋的学生每天tian1liang4以前就起床了。	The diligent student gets up before dawn every day.
走路	穿着这双笨重的鞋zou3lu4真难受。	It's not easy walking in these clumsy shoes.
乡村	xiang1cun1生活确实让人愉快。	Life in the country is rather delightful.
推出	这家小公司tui1chu1新产品获得成功，因为这种新产品恰好是大众所需要的。	The small company hit the mark with its new product because it was just what the public wanted.
奔	他ben1向书架。	He ran to the bookshelf.
原本	那把椅子yuan2ben3是为你准备的，但是被她拿走了。	The chair was intended for you, but she took it away.
向前	部队xiang4qian2推进时呈扇形散开	The troops fanned out as they advanced.
打败	南部邦联被北方da3bai4了。	The Confederacy was defeated by the northern states.
涂	我们把奶油tu2到面包上。	We spread butter on bread.
上次	在shang4ci4战争中他在北非战役参战.	He fought in the N African campaign during the last war.
做法	这是目前最时兴的zuo4fa3了。	It's the in-thing to do at the moment.
头疼	我tou2teng2得要裂开似的。	I've got a splitting headache.
起身	他站qi3shen1给自己又倒了点咖啡。	He got up and helped himself to more coffee.
胖子	那个pang4zi5经常大吃甜食。	The fat man gorged himself constantly with enormous desserts.
说法	这种shuo1fa5不对头。	Such statement isn't correct.
猛	这匹骡子忽然用后腿meng3踢	The mule lashed out with its hind legs.
不知	他在生人面前总是bu4zhi1要说什么。	He is always at a loss what to say in front of strangers.
钻戒	寻物: 遗失zuan4jie4一枚, 寻得者将获重酬.	Lost: one diamond ring. Finder will be rewarded.
耶稣	从圣坛窃取Ye1su1受难像是亵渎神灵的行为.	It is (a) sacrilege to steal a crucifix from an altar.
相互	这两个事件xiang1hu4有联系。	These two events were related to each other.
草莓	我们有不同的派，例如苹果、樱桃和cao3mei2派。	We have different pies, such as apple, cherry, and strawberry pies.
转身	我一zhuan3shen1, 忽然看见了汤姆。	Suddenly I turned and caught sight of Tom.
提到	他顺便ti2dao4他有一辆新汽车。	He mentioned in passing that he had a new car.
难以置信	我发觉他的所作所为（不负责任）到了简直令人nan2yi3zhi4xin4的地步.	I find his behaviour (irresponsible) beyond belief.
逃跑	他向门口走去, 企图tao2pao3。	He made for the door and tried to escape.
设计师	她穿着纽约杰出she4ji4shi1设计的服装。	She was dressed by a leading New York designer.
卫生	wei4sheng1当局正调查这件事.	The health authorities are investigating the matter.
收集	shou1ji2这些邮票花了我一百块钱。	It cost me 100 dollars to collect the stamps.
如意	当上了歌剧明星也决非事事ru2yi4。	Being an opera star is not all roses by any means.
罢了	人生，再好也不过是汪洋苦海ba4le5。	Life is, at best, a sea of trouble.
白人	大规模的农场聚集在bai2ren2的所有权之下，这在当时是一股潮流。	The aggregation of immense farms under white ownership was a trend at that time.
留给	这些座位是liu2gei3贵宾的.	These seats are reserved for special guests.
口袋	他的kou3dai5全被糖粘住了。	His pocket was all gummed up with candy.
上车	他的行李刚一装shang4che1，吉普车就开走了。	No sooner had his luggage been loaded than the jeep started off.
每次	他mei3 ci4来信都向你问候.	He always asks after you in his letters.
发出	这只钟fa1chu1很响的滴答声。	The clock ticks very loudly.
幸好	他来看我时，我xing4hao3好在家。	Luckily I was at home when he called.
机器人	ji1qi4ren2逐渐代替了装配线上的工人.	Robots are replacing people on assembly lines.
走开	老人快步zou3kai1了。	The old man set off at a quick trot.
船长	chuan2zhang3在航海日志中描述了这次事故。	The captain described the accident in the ship's log.
队员	我是学校足球队的dui4yuan2。	I am in the school football team.
大门	da4men2太窄，汽车进不去。	The gate is too narrow for a car.
亲人	灾难中丧失qin1ren2的幸存者很值得同情.	Survivors of the disaster who lost their relatives are much to be pitied.
吵醒	我们轻声谈话, 以免chao3xing3婴儿.	We spoke in whispers for fear of waking the baby/for fear (that) we might wake the baby.
道路	dao4lu4[通道]畅通吗?	Is the way/passage free?
牧师	他是农村一大牧区的mu4shi5.	He is vicar of a large rural parish.
打赌	我敢da3du3他已回家了。	I'll bet he's been back home.
细	这棵柏树又高又xi4。	This cypress is tall and thin.
祝愿	zhu4yuan4你来年一切顺利.	Here's wishing you all the best in the coming year.
面试	所有的申请者一个接着一个参加mian4shi4。	All the applicants were interviewed one by one.
嘴巴	她的小zui3ba5一噘，眼泪汪汪。	Her little mouth pucker up and tear fille her eyes.
相遇	我们（彼此）xiang1yu4纯属偶然.	We met (each other) quite by chance.
惬意	要不是因为下雨, 我们的假日一定过得很qie4yi4.	But for the rain we would have had a nice holiday.
开口	她的裙子上有个细长的kai1kou3。	Her skirt has a long slit.
真诚	他很zhen1cheng2, 不由得我不信任他.	His sincerity inclines me to trust him.
交友	这个男孩有jiao1you3的能力。	This boy has a faculty of making friends easily.
科技	篱笆上的洞使我们能够观看；ke1ji4使外科医生能打开和修复心脏	A hole in the fence that enabled us to watch; techniques that enable surgeons to open and repair the heart.
判	他被pan4阻挡犯规。	He was found guilty of obstruction.
猛击	她用锤子meng3ji1箱子.	She smashed the hammer down onto the box.
全新	我们正处於一种quan2xin1的局面.	We're into a whole new ball game.
神父	shen2fu5为人举行临终圣礼。	The priest administered the last rites.
深夜	他一直工作到shen1ye4.	He carried on working long into the night.
鸭子	湖里有许多ya1zi5在游泳。	There are many ducks swimming in the lake.
用来	动物脂可以yong4lai2做香皂。	Tallow can be used for making soap.
杭州	这个周末我们将去Hang2zhou1旅行。	We shall make an excursion to Hangzhou this weekend.
童年	他们幸福地度过tong2nian2。	They spend their childhood in happiness.
语音	他的耳朵对伦敦郊区的yu3yin1仍然一听就能辨别。	His ear is still attune to the sound of the London suburb.
保	我的房子bao3了火险。	My house is insured against fire.
人心	那个晚会真是激动ren2xin1。	That party is only too exciting.
吃完	他chi1wan2面包後，去外套上的面包屑。	After eating the loaf he whisked the crumbs off his coat.
渐渐	海水jian4jian4地侵蚀了陆地。	The sea is gradually encroaching on the land.
好笑	使我感到极其hao3xiao4的是他的假胡子掉下来了.	To my great amusement his false beard fell off.
粗	我们用cu1绳把所有包裹捆扎妥当。	We tied up both package well with heavy cord.
有钱	她把幸福和you3qian2联想到一起。	She associated happiness with having money.
家长	绝大部分的jia1zhang3关心孩子。	Parents for the most part are concerned for their children.
哟	yo1，大人，你想找我茬，是吗？	Oh, Lord, are you going to get on my back?
奇	你的房间整洁得出qi2.	Your room is a marvel of neatness and order.
快速	kuai4su4巡逻艇迅即赶上那艘旧货船.	The fast cruiser soon overhauled the old cargo boat.
安全感	他们哄骗我，让我产生了一种虚假的an1quan2gan3。	They lulled me into a false sense of security.
全都	这些公式我并不quan2dou1记得。	I do not remember all these formula.
车站	我们去che1zhan4为她送行。	We went to the station to see her off.
招呼	他打了个榧子zhao1hu5服务员.	He snapped his fingers to attract the waiter.
录像	lu4xiang4磁带一种比较宽的磁带，用来记录图像和对应的声音以进行复放或者播放	A relatively wide magnetic tape used to record visual images and associated sound for subsequent playback or broadcasting.
闪	所有的灯都shan3了一会儿。	All the lights flickered for a moment.
有限	我准备花多少钱是you3xian4度的.	There's a limit to how much I'm prepared to spend.
处于	chu3yu2…境地；位于	Having been placed; located.
车祸	他的妻子在che1huo4中丧生。	His wife was killed in a car accident.
轻轻	他qing1qing1按下手柄。	He pressed lightly on the handle.
下降	骤雨这种水的xia4jiang4；暴雨	A fall of such water; a rainstorm.
托	他tuo1我照看一天孩子。	He's entrusted his children to my care for a day.
老是	他lao3shi4打扰我.	He's constantly disturbing me.
当作	他把妻子dang4zuo4奴隶看待。	He treats his wife like a slave.
非洲	Fei1zhou1向欧洲出口牛肉。	Africa is exporting beef to Europe.
手里	保守党在上次议会选举中从工党shou3 li3夺得这个议席.	The Conservatives won the seat (ie in Parliament) from Labour at the last election.
雇	gu4会计划得来.	It would pay (you) to use an accountant.
后天	你的胶卷hou4tian1就可以冲洗出来。	Your film will be processed the day after tomorrow.
母	mu3牛流产了。	The cow cast her calf.
怀	对自己huai2有奇特的优越感	Fantastic ideas about her own superiority.
质疑	他的行为一直无可zhi4yi2。	His conduct has always been above suspicion.
屋顶	这幢楼房的wu1ding3不牢靠。	The roof of the building is unsound.
头脑	多看电视会使你的tou2nao3退化。	Too much television rots your brain.
大地	da4di4在他的脚下震动。	The ground quaked under his feet.
篮球	我们既不将打lan2qiu2也不将打排球。	We are going to play neither basketball nor volleyball.
英文	这台计算机有标准的Ying1wen2键盘。	The computer has a normal qwerty keyboard.
搜查	我们有权sou1cha2这座建筑物.	We have the authority to search this building.
说实话	我害怕对他shuo1 shi2hua4。	I'm afraid to tell him the truth.
愁	我心情chou2闷, 不想和任何人讲话。	I am out of spirits and don't want to speak to anyone.
傻子	别把他弄得像个sha3zi5似的.	Don't make him appear a fool.
凯旋	全市居民倾城而出迎接kai3xuan2球队.	The city turned out to welcome back its victorious team.
赶上	我快跑为的是要gan3shang4火车。	I run fast so that I may catch the train.
上周	那位职员用算盘将shang4zhou1的花销计算出来。	The clerk reckoned the expenditure last week with an abacus.
启动	那两个齿轮一啮合, 机器就qi3dong4了.	The two cog-wheels engaged and the machine started.
扇	我走到临湖而开的那shan4门前。	I reached the gate that opened onto the lake.
汤姆	我认识Tang1mu3很多年了。	I've known Tom for years.
潜伏	他被感染了一种qian2fu2性的传染病。	He was infected with a latent infection.
洛	拉斯Luo4·拜罗发明了圆珠笔.	Laszlo Biro invented the ball-point pen.
做饭	他用煤气炉zuo4fan4。	He cooks his meal with a gas stove.
费	fei4了半天劲才划到岸边.	It was a long pull to the shore.
你好	这药保证能让ni3hao3好睡一觉。	This medicine will ensure you a good night's sleep.
长相	野蛮的zhang3xiang4凶恶的或面目狰狞的	Savage or threatening in appearance.
明信片	你收到我的ming2xin4pian4了吗?	Did you get my postcard?
大师	贝多芬被认为是不朽的古典音乐da4shi1.	Beethoven is regarded as one of the immortals of classical music.
劲	费了半天jin4才划到岸边.	It was a long pull to the shore.
妻	【谚】夫善则qi1贤。	A good husband makes a good wife.
夹	木头用钳jia1固定住了.	The wood is held in position by a clamp.
微薄	他们靠他wei1bo2的薪金勉强　口.	They eke out a bare existence (ie They scarcely manage) on his low salary.
路边	公共汽车往lu4bian1靠让小轿车超过去。	The bus pulled into the side of the road to let the cars pass.
抹	用发油将头发mo3平	Plaster one's hair with pomade.
社交	他活动于she4jiao1甚严的she4jiao1圈内，而且属于那些最不愿吸收外人的俱乐部。	He moves in exclusive social circles and belongs to the most exclusive clubs.
物品	邮资邮寄的wu4pin3所需的费用	The charge for mailing an item.
善	【谚】夫shan4则妻贤。	A good husband makes a good wife.
气温	今天qi4wen1是华氏七十度。	The temperature today is seventy degrees Fahrenheit.
药物	这yao4wu4引起了剧烈的反应.	The medicine produced a violent reaction.
没用	她发现和他们的争论mei2yong4。	She find it useless argue with them.
老人	我可怜这位lao3ren2。	I feel pity for the old man.
南方	湿润的风从nan2fang1吹来。	A humid wind blew from the south.
晓得	不xiao3de5该听谁的劝告。	I don't know which advise to follow.
满满	他们吃了man3man3一罐果酱.	They've eaten a whole pot of jam!
不对	我猜得对不是bu4dui4？	Have I guessed right or wrong?
做人	撒谎违反我zuo4ren2的原则。	Lying goes against my principles.
足球	他当了五年的zu2qiu2队长.	He was (the) captain of the football team for five years.
杀害	法庭已经做出不合法sha1hai4的裁决。	The court has made a verdict of unlawful killing.
碰上	如果我peng4shang5他，一定向他解释那件事。	I'll certainly explain it to him, if I can lay hold on him.
陈	集市的景象光怪陆离, 纷然杂chen2.	The bazaar was a kaleidoscope of strange sights and impressions.
不论	bu4lun4你在哪里，我都会想念你。	Wherever you are, I will miss you.
化身	她是美德的hua4shen1.	She's the very incarnation of goodness.
市长	shi4zhang3的权杖是权威的象征。	The mayor has a mace which is held as a sign of authority.
末	我不幸错过了mo4班火车。	Unfortunately, I missed the last train.
指控	他说人们的zhi3kong4是不公正的。	He said that the people's accusation was unjust.
松	这个把柄song1了.	The handle has come loose.
大楼	那张照片上的突出物是我们的da4lou2。	The projection on the picture is our building.
闷	他用枕头把婴儿men4死了.	He smothered the baby with a pillow.
最佳	恋爱与丑闻，是喝茶的zui4jia1甜点心。	Love and scandal are the best sweeteners of tea.
说出	他觉得很难shuo1chu1自己的感受.	He finds it hard to say what he feels.
医疗	我享受yi1liao2待遇，每年才交一块钱。	I only pay one yuan a year for all the medical care I get.
当中	在所有四季dang1zhong1，夏天最热。	Of all the four seasons, summer is the hottest.
婆婆	我po2po5有一台缝纫机。	My mother-in-law has a sewing machine.
绑	把绳子bang3牢，免得它松脱。	Bind the rope fast lest it should come loose.
迷失	暴风雨过后，航行者们mi2shi1了方向。	These voyagers lost their way after the storm.
大声	那只猫da4sheng1地发出呼噜呼噜声。	The cat purred loudly.
事事	他shi4shi4阻挠我。	He crossed me in everything.
礼拜	圣句朗读《圣经》，是教堂li3bai4的组成部分	A reading from Scripture that forms a part of a church service.
英尺	客机在两万ying1chi3的高度飞行。	The airliner flew at an altitude of 20000ft.
供	工人们装好了gong1水系统。	The workmen fixed the water system.
迷	那个标志误人，它使我mi2了路。	The misleading sign led me astray.
闹钟	直到听到nao4zhong1的铃声我才醒来。	I didn't wake up until I heard the alarm clock.
土	他给芹菜培上了tu3.	He earthed up the celery.
单纯	与其说她善良不如说她dan1chun2。	She is not so kind as simple.
而言	就我er2 yan2，我并不反对你的计划。	As far as I am concerned, I'm not against your plan.
尖叫	我的女儿看见了一条鼻涕虫，jian1jiao4了起来。	My daughter screamed when she saw a slug.
失落	她放弃职业结婚以后有一种shi1luo4感。	She experienced a loss of identity after giving up her career to get married.
齐	草已长得qi2腰高了.	The grass had grown waist-high.
牛肉	阿根廷是niu2rou4制品的一大出口国。	Argentina is a big exporter of beef products.
歌声	鸟的ge1sheng1是曙光从大地反响过去的回声。	The bird-song is the echo of the morning light back from the earth.
遗忘	忘却、yi2wang4忘却、yi2wang4的状态；yi2wang4	A condition of forgetfulness; oblivion.
四处	炮弹在si4chu4爆炸。	Shells were bursting all around.
加拿大	枫叶是Jia1na2da4的象征。	The maple leaf is the emblem of Canada.
俄罗斯	E2luo2si1运动员囊括体操项目奖牌.	The Russians made a clean sweep of (the medals in) the gymnastics events.
清新	早晨qing1xin1的空气使我感到十分愉快。	The morning fresh air makes me feel quite frisky.
忧伤	葬礼是一个令人you1shang1的场合。	A funeral is a melancholy occasion.
哪些	这一程序有na3xie1功能?	What functions can this program perform?
男性	nan2xing4和女性是平等的。	The male and female genders are equal.
关掉	离开房间前，请把灯guan1diao4。	Please turn the light off before leaving the room.
天地	孩子们经常有他们自己的tian1di4，你最好不要干涉他们的事。	Children are often in a world by themselves. You'd better not interfere in their business.
桌面	zhuo1mian4是一块石板。	The top of the table was formed by a stone slab.
梦幻	对许多小女孩来说，童话故事构成了她们的meng4huan4世界，她们小小的生活天地也系于神话仙境。	For most little girls fairy tales are the stuff that dreams are made of, and their little lives are bounded by the fairyland.
马路	他在ma3lu4对面向我招手致意。	He beckoned to me from across the street.
兰	很多种野生lan2越来越罕见了.	Many kinds of wild orchid are becoming rare.
尽情	别客气啦jin4qing2地吃吧！	Don't stand on ceremony----dig in!
吸引力	月球对地球的xi1yin3li4造成潮汐。	The attraction of the moon for the earth causes the tides.
开会	委员会今天三点kai1hui4。	The committee meets at three today.
上来	女主人给我们端shang4lai2一大盘热气腾腾的饺子。	Our hostess served up a large plate of steaming hot dumplings.
华盛顿	在美国，Hua2sheng4dun4是政府所在地，纽约是主要的商业中心。	In the US, Washington is the seat of government and New York City is the chief seat of commerce.
击	那一ji1妙极了!	That was a clever hit!
街上	晚上大jie1shang5灯火辉煌.	The high street is a blaze of lights in the evening.
早饭	请在zao3fan4前把床铺好.	Please make your beds before breakfast.
公共	在gong1gong4场合随便吐痰是不礼貌的。	It's rude to spit in public.
描述	你miao2shu4得恰到好处.	You've hit it on the nose!
周日	我预计我会在Zhou1ri4回来的。	I expect I will be back on Sunday.
针	她的手指叫zhen1给扎伤了.	She pricked her finger on/with a needle.
战士	那些zhan4shi4都裹着绑腿。	Those soldiers all wear leggings.
免	他们mian3除了他的监禁。	They discharged him from the prison.
好不容易	她喘著气hao3bu4 rong2yi4才说出了几个字来.	She managed to gasp (out) a few words.
论	地质学书籍或lun4著	A book on geology.
农场	把小麦从nong2chang3运到面粉厂。	Wheat is transported from the farms to the mills.
黄瓜	在我们的菜园里，我们种了茄子，huang2gua1和土豆。	In our garden we have egg-plants, cucumber and potato.
接下来	一会儿她就用钳子把孩子jie1 xia4lai5了。	In a little while she delivered the baby with forceps.
摄影师	这位she4ying3shi1拍了一张象群的照片。	The photographer took a photo of a herd of elephants.
一时	他yi1shi2想不开, 自杀了.	He committed suicide during a fit of depression.
萨	Sa4姆听了这消息后紧皱眉头。	Sam bent his brows upon hearing the news.
人群	ren2qun2散开了.	The crowd dispersed (in all directions).
刚好	今年国庆节gang1hao3是星期日。	National Day falls on a Sunday this year.
微风	旗帜在wei1feng1中飘扬。	Banners fluttered in the breeze.
钻	他们zuan1透了几层岩石以寻找石油.	They drilled through several layers of rock to reach the oil.
上校	shang4xiao4命令士兵们在甲板上集合。	The colonel ordered their soldiers to gather on the deck.
地下	这种导弹由di4xia4发射.	The missile is delivered from underground.
飞行	飞机在浓雾上空fei1xing2。	The aircraft was flying above thick fog.
整整	他吃了zheng3zheng3一听炖肉.	He ate a whole tin of stew.
某人	将mou3ren2的收入分至四年从而使税赋降至最小程度	Average one's income over four years so as to minimize the tax rate.
小丑	xiao3chou3扮出了可笑的鬼脸。	The clowns pulled funny faces.
注意力	一阵喧闹声转移了我们的zhu4yi4li4。	A loud noise diverted my attention.
被捕	米基曾因毒品事而bei4bu3.	Mickey's been busted for drugs.
订阅	你ding4yue4哪一种杂志?	Which journal(s) do you subscribe to?
海滩	他和妻子沿着hai3tan1散步。	He promenaded along the beach with his wife.
歌词	我不知道这首歌的ge1ci2, 但我可以哼给你听.	I don't know the words of the song but I can hum it to you.
西班牙	Xi1ban1ya2曾以其强大的舰队而著称.	Spain used to be famous for its strong armada.
扩建	这所房子不时进行kuo4jian4.	The house has been added to (ie New rooms, etc have been built on to it) from time to time.
短暂	献身的一种duan3zan4的宗教服务	A short religious service.
和尚	he2shang4都剃光头.	Buddhist priests shave their heads.
内裤	让每一个渴望名声的人捡他自己（喜欢）的式样的nei4ku4去吧。	Let every man who pants for fame select his own style of pants and go ahead.
手段	无线电和电视是重要的通信shou3duan4。	Radio and television are important means of communication.
钢琴	他演唱由gang1qin2伴奏.	He sang to a piano accompaniment.
做梦	她说她从来不zuo4meng4.	She claims she never dreams.
平台	脚踏旋转ping2tai2一种由一圆形小ping2tai2组成的游乐场设备，当推动它或踩其踏板时能够转动	A piece of playground equipment consisting of a small circular platform that revolves when pushed or pedaled.
演唱	这两人用和声yan3chang4.	The two sang in harmony.
餐馆	别在快can1guan3耽误太长时间。	Don't stay too long at the snack bar.
列	这lie4火车上有餐车吗？	Be there a restaurant car on the train?
魔术师	那个mo2shu4shi1把鸟变没了.	The conjurer magicked the bird away.
不久	bu4jiu3他就跑在后头了。	Soon he fell behind in the race.
公交	另外一些人认为应该开辟更多的gong1jiao1路线，因为公共汽车载客多。	Others argue that more bus routes should be opened up because buses can accommodate more passengers.
高度	在这样的gao1du4，雪永不融化。	In these altitudes snow never melts.
机票	我们预订了下一班的ji1piao4.	We're booked on the next flight.
心跳	激动使我的xin1tiao4加快。	The excitement quickened my pulse.
增长	我们的薪金每年会自动zeng1zhang3。	We get an automatic increase in pay every year.
美金	我需要把mei3jin1换成法郎.	I need to change my dollars into francs.
诅咒	基督教加尔文派教义中上帝没有指明该zu3zhou4的人，只决定了自己的选民	The Calvinist doctrine that God neglected to designate those who would be damned, positively determining only the elect.
蜂蜜	以吃蝗虫和feng1mi4为生	Living off locusts and honey.
回应	默许的以无反应或不行动作为hui2ying4而接受或服从于某一行动的	Receiving or subjected to an action without responding or initiating an action in return.
不知不觉	bu4zhi1-bu4jue2的；不自觉的	Lacking conscious awareness; unmindful.
桩	他向地里打了一根zhuang1子。	He drove a stake into the ground.
早就	我希望一zao3jiu5动身离开。	I hope to get away early in the morning.
如同	ru2tong2地球一样，火星绕太阳转。	Like the earth, Mars go round the Sun.
战场	他冲入zhan4chang3中。	He rushed into the fray.
桶	这个工人用一个铁箍修tong3。	The worker repaired the barrel with a hoop iron.
章	下一zhang1讨论动词.	The next chapter deals with verbs.
长期	我是这份报纸的chang2qi1读者。	I am a regular reader of this newspaper.
众多	大量zhong4duo1的状态或者特性	The condition or quality of being numerous.
夫	她安葬在亡fu1的墓旁.	She was laid to rest beside her late husband.
场景	拍摄危险的chang3jing3时, 这位大明星有个替身.	Another man stands in for the big star in the dangerous scenes.
恭	他gong1gong1敬敬地站在老师面前。	He was standing hat in hand before his teacher.
检察官	内庭法官与jian3cha2guan1私下讨论或听取不必在法庭上审讯的案件的房间	A room in which a judge may consult privately with attorneys or hear cases not taken into court.
侧	鸟把头斜向[到]一ce4.	The bird cocked its head to/on one side.
片子	这位导演想让迈克尔·凯恩主演他的新pian1zi5.	The director wanted to star Michael Caine in his new film.
添	真抱歉给你tian1了这么多麻烦。	I am so sorry to give you not a little trouble.
死刑	杀人犯被判处si3xing2。	The murderer was sentenced to death.
杂种	骡子是公驴和母马交配而生的za2zhong3。	A mule is a hybrid of a donkey and a horse.
之内	一小时zhi1nei4我就会到。	I'll be coming within an hour.
大会	党向工会da4hui4致以亲切的问候。	The party sent its fraternal greetings to the trade union meeting.
之所以	他zhi1suo3yi3成功是因为他工作勤奋。	He achieved because he was a hard worker.
喜剧	我喜欢xi3ju4而不喜欢悲剧。	I prefer comedy to tragedy.
吉他	他很可能跟平常一样会带ji2ta1来.	Doubtless he'll be bringing his guitar, as usual.
委员会	wei3yuan2hui4打算休会几个星期。	The committee is going into recess for a couple of weeks.
防	这种材料fang2雨。	This material is impervious to rainwater.
体重	他正在节食以减轻ti3zhong4。	He is on a diet to reduce some weight.
击败	裁判判定他在第一回合被ji1bai4。	The referee counted him out in the first round.
地板	di4ban3已用砂纸磨光.	The floor has been sanded smooth.
乔治	Qiao2zhi4先生猛烈抨击大学的招生制度。	Mr.George lashed out at the university enrolling system.
鬼魂	他声称他可以使gui3hun2现身.	He claimed that he could make ghosts materialize.
大陆	父亲终于与da4lu4上的弟弟联络上了。	Father finally got in touch with his brother in mainland China.
电视台	新闻编辑室新闻办公室、广播电台或dian4shi4tai2写作和编辑新闻的房间	A room, as in a newspaper office or radio or television station, where news stories are written and edited.
入睡	最好是不服用药物自然ru4shui4。	It is better to sleep naturally than taking medicine.
巧	琼斯先生是个qiao3木匠。	Mr. Jones is a clever carpenter.
受害人	抢劫者用刀子向shou4hai4ren2刺去。	The mugger thrust at his victim with a knife.
疼痛	teng2tong4减轻了.	The pain eased.
在场	他的眼泪引起zai4chang3人的怜悯。	His tears were pathetic to witness.
敲门	谁在qiao1 men2?	Who is knocking at the door?
偏	pian1度pian1差；一特定数量的pian1差	Deviation or a specified amount of deviation.
烦躁	吵闹声使他fan2zao4。	The loud noise chafed him.
车票	所有乘客都必须出示che1piao4。	All passengers are required to show their tickets.
欢喜	他满心huan1xi3。	Joy filled his breast.
大爷	我躺在床上回想王da4ye5给我讲的那番话。	I lay in bed and recalled the things Uncle Wang had told me.
忘掉	有些电视节目的用意是要今天观赏，明天wang4diao4。	Some TV programs are meant to be watched today and forgotten tomorrow.
麦克	真羡慕mai4ke4，他的车子真漂亮。	I envy Mike, whose car is fancy.
前往	就在昨天，他动身qian2wang3美国。	It was yesterday that he started for America.
人体	肌肉的收缩是ren2ti3的一种反应。	The contraction of muscle is a reaction of the body.
妙	他的miao4语引起一阵哄堂大笑。	His witty remark caused a storm of laughter.
怒	反英宣传触犯了众nu4.	The anti-British propaganda gave (ie caused) much offence.
净	剃刀锋利刮得就乾jing4.	A sharp razor gives a close shave.
可笑	给狗起这个名字多ke3xiao4！	It is how laughable to this name of dog!
台词	我登台演出前总要温习一下tai2ci2.	I always run over my lines before going on stage.
青春期	qing1chun1qi1对人的性格形成是非常重要的。	The period of adolescence is very important in forming one's character.
大道	八条da4dao4从广场呈辐射形伸展出去。	Eight roads radiate from the square.
一点点	yi1dian3dian3对你不会有什么坏处。	A little of it will not do you any harm.
致命	zhi4ming4的；致死的易引起死亡的；zhi4ming4的	Tending to cause death; deadly.
抗	kang4高血压的减轻或控制高血压的	Reducing or controlling high blood pressure.
糖果	他把口袋都塞满了tang2guo3。	He crammed as much candy into his pockets as they would hold.
诺	他在那些大胆而残忍的妇女把所有她们的男子杀死之后，曾经在雷姆nuo4岛旁边经过。	He later journeyed through the isle of Lemnos whose bold and heartless females, earlier, had slaughtered every male upon the island;
料	储藏干草liao4的顶棚	A loft for storing hay.
蒙	他的衣服meng2上了灰尘.	His clothes were covered with dirt.
底下	他们蜷著身子蹲在桌子di3xia5.	They (were) bent double crouching under the table.
安心	别着急，an1xin1养病。	Just take care of yourself and don't worry.
杰	jie2弗里斯负责体育新闻组。	Jefferies is running the sports desk.
捕鱼	最近几个月，泰恩经历了一系列失败的捕捞，老板对他非常不满，于是他决定在bu3yu2季节结束前再一次出海。	For several months Tyne has had a run of disappointing catches, and his boss was quite dissatisfied with him. So he decides to make one more trip before the end of the fishing season.
勒	骑马的人lei1住了马。	The rider reined in his horse.
上升	拥有汽车的人数一直在逐渐shang4sheng1。	There has been a gradual increase in the number of people owning cars.
黄色	鹿的斑点是huang2se4的。	The dapple of the deer is yellow.
都市	du1shi4笼罩在渐暗的天色之中。	Dusk was settling over the city.
葬礼	只有少数亲戚参加了他的zang4li3。	Only a few of his kindred were present at his funeral.
同步	（tong2bu4电动机的）速度偏差tong2bu4电机运行速度的周期性变化	The periodic variation in speed of a synchronous motor with respect to the current.
港	那船进了拉各斯gang3进行检修.	The boat put in at Lagos/put into Lagos for repairs.
大海	你从da4hai3能联想到什么?	What associations does the sea have for you?
爆竹	bao4zhu2啪啪地响。	The firecrackers popped.
羊毛	yang2mao2是雪白的。	The sheep's fleece was white as snow.
三明治	他买了一个鳕鱼罐头和一个san1ming2zhi4作晚饭。	He bought a canned cod and a sandwich as supper.
装置	宇航员有特殊的呼吸zhuang1zhi4。	The astronauts have special breathing apparatus.
寸	要是我再高几cun4，我会好高兴。	How happy I would be if I were a few inches taller!
强化	运动使肌肉qiang2hua4。	Exercise tones up the muscles.
星期五	他xing1qi1wu3要出院了.	He's coming out of hospital on Friday.
打牌	没有人会责怪你da3pai2消遣。	You won't be blamed for playing cards for love.
快要	我肺都kuai4yao4气炸了！	I'm about to explode!
男士	通常, 是nan2shi4伸出手来邀请女士跳舞。	As a rule, it's the gentleman that holds out his hand to invite a lady to dance.
楼上	lou2shang4的房间要比底层的暖和得多。	The upstairs rooms are much warmer than those on the ground floor.
骑士	qi2shi4们冲向宫殿去保护国王。	The knights rushed into the palace to protect their king.
尤其是	我喜欢这乡村，you2qi2shi4在春天。	I love the country, especially in spring.
惊	马听到爆炸声受了jing1。	The horse took a fright at the sound of the explosion.
校	这所学xiao4原先很小.	The school was originally quite small.
流量	开关一种用来控制电路中电liu2liang4的电流器件	An electrical relay used to control the flow of power in a circuit.
也就是说	他是地方行政官员, ye3jiu4shi4shuo1是文官.	He's a local government administrator, that is to say a Civil Servant.
火星	huo3xing1是太阳系的第四颗行星。	Mars is the fourth planet in order from the sun.
大卫	Da4wei4的家离环球剧院很近。	David's house is quite close to the Global Theater.
强盗	一群qiang2dao4抢劫了火车。	A band of robbers held up the train.
楼梯	没有电梯, 我们得爬六段lou2ti1.	There was no lift and we had to climb six flights of stairs.
大厅	da4ting1里有窃窃私语声。	There was a low murmur of conversation in the hall.
名叫	有个ming2jiao4弗雷德的陌生人来找我.	A strange man, Fred by name, came to see me.
开学	新学期kai1xue2前，我一直无所事事。	I'm just kicking my heels until the beginning of the new term.
监控	对计算机程序中的指令序列的检测和记录，例如在jian1kong4程序和调试程序中使用的情况。	The detection and recording of the sequencing of instructions in computer programs, for example, as used in monitors and debugging routines.
弗兰克	一位老式汽车收藏家要Fu2lan2ke4留神1906年产的煤气前灯。	A collector of antique cars asked Frank to look out for a1906 gas head lamp.
鸣	时钟ming2响报午时已至	The clock chimed noon.
海军	他们为hai3jun1徵募了四百名新兵.	They enlisted four hundred recruits for the navy.
禽兽	人类与qin2shou4之别就在于具有思维能力。	Intellect distinguishes humans from other animals.
打破	你知道谁da3po4了窗户？	Do you know who broke the window?
胡子	你怎麽不把hu2zi5刮掉?	Why don't you shave your beard off?
坏事	这种huai4shi4不是一下能扫除干净的。	Such evil practice cannot be swept away at once.
获	那些囚犯huo4赦释放.	The convicts were pardoned and set free.
感人	他讲话gan3ren2足以赢得听众同情.	His moving speech was enough to carry the audience.
田	两块tian2之间有一条树木带。	A belt of trees grew between the two fields.
大麻	da4ma2可用来做衣服和绳子。	Hemp can be used for cloth and ropes.
会员	我们开始只有六个hui4yuan2。	We have only six members to start with.
之下	绳索在张力zhi1xia4断了。	The rope broke under the strain.
胡	饼烤hu2了.	The cakes were burnt to a cinder.
商场	那家shang1chang3的西洋梳镜柜看上去很特别。	The chiffonier in that shop looks special.
衰	你怎么能看着孩子惨遭折磨而无动于shuai1？	How can you turn away from a child that is being cruelly treated?
抛	她把球pao1起又接住.	She threw the ball up and caught it again.
以外	那小城尚在五英里yi3wai4.	The town is still five miles off.
议员	yi4yuan2们离开了会议厅.	The members left the council chamber.
陛下	国王和王后bi4xia4今天将为新桥通车典礼剪彩。	Their Majesty will open the new bridge today.
牛仔	我舅舅是个地道的niu2zai3。	My uncle is a sure-enough cowboy.
鸭	芭芭内ya1系由野ya1与普通ya1杂交而成。	A barbary duck is a cross between a wild duck and an ordinary duck.
汉	他真是贪吃的大肚han4.	He's a real greedy guts.
巨	一股ju4浪从甲板上卷了过去。	A huge wave swept over the deck.
完蛋	财政损失使他wan2dan4。	The financial loss did him in.
老头	那个顽固lao3tou2就是不肯进医院.	The obstinate old man refused to go to hospital.
艺术家	yi4shu4jia1巧妙地捕捉住她的笑容.	The artist has caught her smile perfectly.
厌倦	他yan4juan4了享乐。	He was satiated with pleasure.
全国	主席的讲话将向quan2guo2广播。	The chairman's speech will be broadcast nationwide.
体内	池有机体ti3nei4一种贮存流体的液囊或穴	A fluid-containing sac or cavity in the body of an organism.
影	椅子的ying3子映到墙上了.	The chair casts a shadow on the wall.
转盘	带动zhuan4pan2旋转的机械装置坏了.	The mechanism that revolves the turntable is broken.
玩儿	用餐时摆弄刀叉wan2r5是不雅的.	It's bad manners to fidget about (with the cutlery) at the table.
身份证	警察让他出示shen1fen4zheng4。	The police asked him to show his identity card.
粉红	天竺葵是种开红、fen3hong2或白色花的花园植物。	The geranium is a garden plant with red, pink or white flowers.
胸部	我xiong1bu4不适。	I have a complaint of the chest.
无论如何	我wu2lun4 ru2he2是会去的。	I will go whether or no.
呼呼	风从门的裂缝中hu1hu1地刮了进来。	The wind whistled through a crack in the door.
奥	艾ao4宙斯所爱的少女，被赫拉变成丁小母牛	A maiden who was loved by Zeus and transformed by Hera into a heifer.
玛丽	Ma3li4和着乐曲打拍子。	Mary beat time to the music.
越狱	警方正在追捕一名yue4yu4的逃犯。	The police are pursuing an escaped prisoner.
爵士	女王为表彰他的贡献封他为jue2shi4.	The Queen requited his services with a knighthood.
棒球	bang4qiu2是美国全民喜爱的运动。	Baseball is the national game of the USA.
黑夜	热带地区hei1ye4来得很快.	Night descends quickly in the tropics.
剧情	ju4qing2解说员在戏剧或诗朗诵中齐声朗诵或演唱一个指定部分或作品的人们	A group of persons who speak or sing in unison a given part or composition in drama or poetry recitation.
小孩子	这xiao3hai2zi5要表明对大人的憎恨就难免受罚。	The child cannot express his hatred of adults with impunity.
休	农夫决定让土地xiu1耕一年。	The farmer decided to leave the land fallow for a year.
超人	她很聪明, 可谓才智chao1ren2.	Her intelligence seems almost superhuman.
一下子	他yi1xia4zi5就猜中了谜底.	He got the answer to the riddle as quick as a flash.
见识	我相信你是有jian4shi5的人。	I give you credit for more sense.
致	吸烟可zhi4肺癌.	Smoking can cause lung cancer.
决	事实jue2不能否认。	There is no denying the fact.
伪装	那个wei3zhuang1者用一本假护照旅行。	The impostor traveled on a false passport.
神经病	shen2jing1bing4神经系统的疾病或异常状态下的神经系统	A disease or an abnormality of the nervous system.
上尉	将军的级别比shang4wei4高。	A general ranks a captain.
远远	她yuan3yuan3地离开故乡在外地生活。	She lives a long way from home.
不可	【谚】遮荫之树bu4ke3砍。	Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade.
狠狠	她吓唬孩子说要hen3hen3打他们一顿.	She threatened the children with a walloping.
打球	如果你找不到别人，我同意为球队上场da3qiu2，但我先告诉你，我的球艺因久不练习已经生疏。	If you can't get anyone else I don't mind playing for the team, but I warn you that I'm not in practice.
想见	我以为你xiang3jian4我, 显然完全是我误解了.	I thought you wanted to see me but I was clearly under a complete misapprehension.
穿过	风呼啸著chuan1guo4树林.	The wind screamed through the trees.
犹太人	这些You2tai4ren2生活在会遭到拘捕的恐惧之中。	The Jews lived in dread of being caught.
局长	ju2zhang3坐在桌子一端她惯常坐的位置上。	The director took her accustomed place at the end of the table.
帽	他们在墓旁脱mao4默哀.	They took off their hats by the grave in silent salute.
年夜	大nian2ye4，除夕新年前夕，传统上在这一天孩子们会挨家挨户地讨礼物	The eve of New Year's Day, on which children traditionally go from house to house asking for presents.
富有	我欣赏他那fu4you3诗意的话语。	I appreciate his poetic utterances.
全世界	熊猫被quan2shi4jie4的人们喜爱。	Pandas are loved by people all over the world.
广	我们的国家森林分布很guang3。	The forests are widespread in our country.
手臂	她shou3bi4上有一块显眼的伤痕.	She had a dilly of a bruise on her arm.
方程式	我不会解这个fang1cheng2shi4.	I can't make this equation come out.
护理	精神病院常雇用男护士hu4li3精神病人.	Male nurses are often employed in hospitals for the mentally ill.
帝国	罗马di4guo2存在了几百年。	The Roman Empire existed for several centuries.
唱片	这张chang4pian4非常成功，卖了一百万张。	The record was a big hit and sold a million copies.
适当	他在最shi4dang4的时候到达。	He arrived at the most opportune moment.
难忘	我们去年有一次nan2wang4的旅行。	We had a memorable trip last year.
请问	qing3wen4我搞对了吗?	Have I got it right, please?
中学	他在一所zhong1xue2工作。	He works in a secondary school.
犯人	他拷打fan4ren2。	He tortured his prisoners.
酱	想要点黑莓jiang4吗？	Would you like some blackberry jam?
小事	没必要为这件xiao3shi4发火!	There's no need to get in a pet about it!
唯有	wei2you3在南台湾我才见过像这样的风景。	Only in the southern part of Taiwan have I seen such scenery as this.
公众	他们依赖gong1zhong4的赈济。	They are dependent on public charity.
校园	新图书馆建在xiao4yuan2的中心。	The new library was built in the centre of the campus.
听话	我弟弟是一个ting1hua4的男孩。	My brother is an obedient boy.
含有	水han2you3氢和氧。	Water contains hydrogen and oxygen.
国外	这一新闻节目只报道guo2wai4消息。	This news program only covers external events.
脚步	我们加快了jiao3bu4.	We quickened our steps.
打断	诘问者的嘲笑da3duan4了她的讲话.	Hecklers interrupted her speech with jeering.
空中	燕子在kong1zhong1掠过.	Swallows are darting through the air.
上司	新来的shang4si5是个大坏蛋!	The new boss is a mean sod!
度假	他每次du4jia4都会带他的狗去。	He never goes on a vacation but he takes his pet dog.
向上	在对流中热气流xiang4shang4运动.	In convection, hot currents flow upwards.
没事儿	他会mei2shi4r5的，他有成功的条件。""	He'll be all right, he's got what it takes.""
绽放	许多花的花瓣在阳光中zhan4fang4。	The petals of many flowers expand in the sunshine.
阁下	如果ge2xia4愿意给我时间，我就能拿出证据来。	If your Lordship will give me time, I will produce the evidence.
灯光	明亮的deng1guang1刺痛了我的眼睛。	The light hurt my eyes with its brightness.
球员	他是大学足球代表队的qiu2yuan2。	He is a member of the varsity football team.
心中	他xin1zhong1的愤恨有增无减。	The resentment festered in his mind.
大众	da4zhong4媒介对广告来说很重要。	Mass media is very important for advertisements.
作证	我给孩子吃药的，大人，""姑娘哽咽地说，""老天爷zuo4zheng4，我并没有害人之心。""	I gave the baby the medicine, your honour, "" sobbed the girl. ""But as God is my witness, I meant no harm.""
走向	他觉得自己在逐步zou3xiang4死亡。	He saw himself dying by inches.
带给	资方准备谈判工资问题，并且充分利用谈判dai4gei3他们的机会，提出劳动生产率的问题。	The employers were prepared to discuss wages, and they pressed home the advantage this gave them by raising the matter of productivity.
嘴里	不加奶的咖啡在zui3li3留下了一些苦味.	Black coffee leaves a bitter taste in the mouth.
化妆品	所以真珠质的厚度就像脸上hua4zhuang1pin3，不久就会磨薄了。	As a result, nacre thickness is sometimes just a cosmetic layer that can wear thin over time.
东京	我飞往Dong1jing1出差。	I flew to Tokyo on business.
回想	他苦笑着hui2xiang3她。	He thought of her with a rueful smile.
寡妇	那gua3fu5和孩子们一贫如洗.	The widow and children are very poorly off.
标签	我不知道这件衣服的价钱，它的biao1qian1掉了。	I don't know the price of the dress; its ticket has fallen off.
弯	你拐错wan1了。	You take the wrong turning.
检测	用于修饰或说明与故障或错误的jian3ce4和隔离有关的特性。	Pertaining to the detection and isolation of a malfunction or mistake.
小偷	xiao3tou1跳上汽车逃走了。	The thief jumped into a car and made his escape.
所在	地点某物suo3zai4或可在的地方：地点	A place where something is or could be located; a site.
不良	她对自己的bu4liang2行为感到羞耻。	She was full of shame at her bad behavior.
战胜	美德定将zhan4sheng4邪恶.	Virtue will prevail against evil.
森	比赛结束前十分钟罗布sen1上场替代威尔金斯.	Robson came on in place of Wilkins ten minutes before the end of the game.
气息	半条命也比全无qi4xi1强。	Half a life is better than no breath.
尽头	隧道的jin4tou2露出了亮光.	A light appeared at the end of the tunnel.
昨日	zuo2ri4有十二小时的晴天, 预报却说仍有雨.	We had twelve hours of sunshine yesterday, as against a forecast of continuous rain.
称为	伦敦也被cheng1wei2现代巴比伦。	London was also called the modern Babylon.
但愿	dan4yuan4他会有一结论。	I wish he would arrive at some conclusion.
乘客	cheng2ke4不得横过铁路。	Passengers mustn't cross the rails.
开工	那家工厂不久就要重新kai1gong1了。	That factory will soon start up again.
路线	他选取了最直的lu4xian4。	He has chosen the most direct route.
头晕	我觉得tou2yun1, 得坐下来.	I feel giddy; I must sit down.
沙	把sha1司搅拌一下以免结块。	Stir the sauce to prevent it lumping.
找回	警察zhao3hui2了被盗的珠宝。	The police recovered the stolen jewellery.
台上	一个小男孩在阳tai2shang4放风筝。	A boy is flying a kite in the piazza.
相比	同其他车辆xiang1bi3，汽车确实很方便。	Compare to other vehicle, car is really quite convenient.
精	碳jing1棒常用于电弧灯。	The stick of carbon is often used in an electric arc lamp.
看书	别在光线不好的地方kan4shu1。	Don't read in poor light.
停车场	在离开ting2che1chang3之前, 我们鼓励了史密斯一家。	We encouraged the Smiths before leaving the parking lot.
大学生	越来越多的da4xue2sheng1主修企业管理学。	More and more students are majoring in the science of business management.
流血	不liu2xue4的政变	A bloodless coup.
谢天谢地	我把那旧家具统统扔掉了，真是xie4tian1-xie4di4！	I've thrown out all the old furniture, and good riddance!
量	护士liang4了我的体温。	The nurse took my temperature.
走运	你真zou3yun4, 不用出席那死气沉沉的招待会.	You can thank your lucky stars (that) you don't have to go to this dreary reception.
下手	这位教师停xia4shou3中批改的试卷，伸手去拿香烟和火柴。	The teacher set the papers he was marking on one side and reach for his cigarettes and matches.
丰厚	对您给予的feng1hou4礼物，我们不胜感激。	We are grateful to you for your bounteous gifts.
众人	那个zhong4ren2眼中的乞丐，其实是化了装的警察。	The supposed beggar was really a police officer in disguise.
患	她huan4神经衰弱.	She suffered a nervous breakdown.
这时	部队恰恰在zhe4shi2准备开进城去.	The troops are even now preparing to march into the city.
孩子们	向你的hai2zi5men5问好。	Give my love to your kids.
剂	咳嗽药中含有祛痰ji4.	The cough medicine contains an expectorant.
警报	我一看见冒烟，就发出了jing3bao4。	I gave the alarm as soon as I saw the smoke.
求婚	他随即向她qiu2hun1。	He thereupon asked her to marry him.
凶	我们的狗别看样子xiong1，其实很温顺。	Our dog may look fierce but he wouldn't hurt a fly.
位子	我需要预约wei4zi5吗？	Do I need a reservation?
十八	我坐电梯上了第shi2ba1层。	I took the elevator to the eighteenth floor.
扫描	在计算机图形学中，提供显示空间均匀覆盖面的预定sao3miao2线图案。	In computer graphics, a predetermined pattern of lines, that provides uniform coverage of a display space.
公车	gong1che1定期往返于那两个城市之间。	Buses ply between the two cities.
乱七八糟	房间里luan4qi1ba1zao1。	The room is in dreadful disorder.
下车	我可以中途xia4che1吗？	Can I make a stop- over on the way?
发疯	他fa1feng1了，开始把这块地方砸得粉碎。	He went stark raving mad and began smashing the place up.
骨	碎gu3是最好的肥料之一。	Crushed bones make one of the best fertilizers.
出于	她chu1yu2虚荣心而嫁给了那个富人。	She married the rich man out of vanity.
奶酪	nai3lao4蛋糕非常可口。要不要来一块？	The cheesecake is very tasty. Can I bring you a piece?
彼得	bi3 de2挨著保罗坐在沙发上。	Peter sat next to Paul on the sofa.
肉体	他没有足够的rou4ti3来大大方方地遮掩其精神；他的才智突出得不像样子。	He has not body enough to cover his mind decently; his intellect is improperly exposed.
十五	本班男生的平均年龄是shi2wu3岁。	The average age of the boys in this class is fifteen.
获胜	这场比赛我们务必huo4sheng4.	We desperately need a result from this match.
直觉	他凭zhi2jue2认为她说的是谎话。	He had a hunch that she was lying.
连接	苏伊士运河lian2jie1著地中海和红海.	The Suez Canal joins the Mediterranean and the Red Sea.
呼叫	她发出痛苦的hu1jiao4.	She emitted a cry of pain.
没错	别讥笑, 他mei2cuo4.	Don't scoff: he's quite right.
狐狸	兔子和hu2li5在英国很常见。	Rabbits and foxes are common in Britain.
晴天	雾消散後是个qing2tian1.	It was a fine day once the mist had cleared.
管用	把担子换到另一肩上可其guan3yong4。	It works to shifted the load to the other shoulder.
装扮	我们在晚会上要zhuang1ban4得像电影中的角色，这是一个多么新奇的主意啊！	We are supposed to dress up as movie characters for the party, what a novel idea!
抬头	他tai2tou2一看，见是一个铁钩子正在他脑袋上方晃来晃去。	He looked up and found an iron hook dangling about his head.
虚	他的快活是xu1假的。	His cheerfulness is false.
极度	ji2du4的痛苦使他发狂。	He was driven crazy by the extremity of pain.
上演	《茶馆》正在首都剧场shang4yan3。	The Teahouse"" is playing at the Capital Theater.
安娜	An1na4不会游泳, 在游泳池的深水区里挣扎著.	Anna couldn't swim and was left floundering (about/around) in the deep end of the swimming-pool.
强壮	男性在身体上要比女性qiang2zhuang4。	The male is physically stronger than the female.
汉堡	他到那里喝一瓶汽水和吃一块han4bao3面包。	He go there to drink a soda and eat a hamburger.
移	积习难yi2.	Old habits die hard.
科学家	小女孩立志要做一名ke1xue2jia1。	The young girl aspired to be a scientist.
吸毒	对有些人来说, xi1du2是一种逃避现实的手段.	Drug-taking is a form of escapism for some people.
乃	作出决策nai3当务之急，此事必然地落在他身上。	The necessity for making decisions devolves on him.
骗人	我可决不至於下贱到pian4ren2的地步	I would never stoop to cheating.
哎哟	ai1yo1！沙子这么烫！会烫伤脚的。	Ouch! The sand is so hot! I can burn my feet.
亨利	heng1li4英勇奋战，可是打败了。	Henry put up a good fight, but was beaten.
希腊	这种建筑风格起源於古Xi1la4.	The style of architecture originated from/with the ancient Greeks.
樱桃	吃ying1tao2前要先把梗儿去掉.	Remove the stalks from the cherries before you eat them.
球队	我申请加入排qiu2dui4时给教练留下了良好的印象。	I had made on the coach a good impression when I went out for volleyball.
牢	这门闩不lao2。	This door won't latch properly.
照亮	红宝石项链zhao4liang4了她的脸庞。	Her ruby necklace brightened her face.
回合	清晨；在前几个hui2he2中就得了两分	In the early morning; scored two runs in the early innings.
挑选	内阁阁员是由首相tiao1xuan3的.	Members of the Cabinet are chosen by the Prime Minister.
直升机	舰队司令乘zhi2sheng1ji1视察他所指挥的军舰。	The admiral visit the ships under his command by helicopter.
得知	她de2zhi1自己不能怀孕.	She was told she couldn't conceive.
乡下	这个xiang1xia5姑娘不习惯他们奢侈的生活方式。	The country girl was not used to their lavish mode of living.
互	双方能hu4让和解吗?	Can the two sides reach a compromise?
告密者	gao4mi4zhe3检举他人的人；告密的人	One who informs against others; an informer.
提起	原告方面以两名证人所提供的证据ti2qi3诉讼。	The prosecution based their case on the evidence of two witnesses.
加倍	如果是加急电报，费用将jia1bei4。	If your cable were urgent, the rate will be doubled.
教会	那人被驱逐出基督jiao4hui4。	The man was excommunicated from the Christian Church.
袋子	【谚】空dai4zi5，立不直。	An empty sack cannot stand upright.
攻城	将军下令部下gong1cheng2。	The general commanded his men to attack the city.
影片	这是部动人的ying3pian4。	It is a moving film.
约定	他们yue1ding4不久见面。	They made a date to meet soon.
无力	她双腿仍有些软弱wu2li4, 但总的情况尚好.	There is still some weakness in the legs, but her general condition is good.
争吵	孩子们为新玩具zheng1chao3。	The children were wrangling over the new toy.
心脏病	这个男孩正在接受xin1zang4bing4治疗。	This boy is being treated for a heart condition.
大餐	告诉你的朋友们你一天吃不了三da4can1。""""我可不想使他们不高兴，最好还是入乡随俗-何况只有一周的时间。""	Just tell your friends you can't eat three enormous meals a day."" ""I wouldn't like to offend them. When in Rome, better do as the Romans do-especially as it's only for a week.""
喽	你当然认识他lou5？""""不大认识。他毕竟不属于我们这儿的老派正统的小圈子。""	You know him, of course? "" ""Not to speak to. After all, he's hardly of our square little circle down here.""
苏	su1看到到处是垃圾很苦恼。	Sue was troubled to see trash everywhere.
网上	当你不再仅仅限于文字和静止图片时，wang3shang4生活会丰富多彩得多。	Life on-line can be a much richer experience when you aren't restricted to just written words and still pictures.
坏人	huai4ren2将会受到永远的惩罚。	The bad man will suffer eternal damnation.
停留	可以中途在贝鲁特ting2liu2吗？	Be it possible to stop over at beirut?
进一步	我们的目标是jin4yi1bu4加强贸易关系。	Our object is to further cement trade relations.
浴室	我们正给yu4shi4贴壁纸.	We're papering the bathroom.
志同道合	我们马上发觉彼此zhi4tong2-dao4he2.	We immediately realized that we were kindred spirits.
可能性	你忽略了火车或许迟到的ke3neng2xing4。	You left out the possibility that the train might be late.
庆幸	他这人真讨厌! 我很qing4xing4能摆脱他的纠缠.	He was a boring nuisance! I'm glad to be rid of him.
认出	他在黑暗中只能勉强辨ren4chu1道路。	He was just able to discern the road from the dark.
份子	好战fen4zi5大肆宣传或欲鼓动起战争的人	One who advocates or attempts to stir up war.
一手	我不能帮你，这事是你自己yi1shou3造成的。	I can't help you. You brought this on yourself.
泪水	德位的手指撕扯着绳子和包装纸。然后是一声狂嘉的尖叫，哎呀！紧接着又变为满脸的lei4shui3。	Della's fingers tore at the string and paper. Then came an excited scream of joy, and then, alas! a quick change to tears.
姨妈	我的老yi2ma1都很古板.	My old aunts are very strait-laced.
全体	我们应该quan2ti3讨论班级活动。	We must discuss the class activities in a body.
高跟鞋	我只在特殊场合穿gao1gen1xie2。	I only wear high heels on special occasions.
身高	字shen1gao1低印刷文字从字脚到字面的高度，标准为0。9186英寸（为2。333厘米）	The height of type from foot to face, standardized at0.9186 inch(2.333 centimeters).
皇冠	戴着的huang2guan1是王权的象征。	A diadem was worn as sign of royal power.
分离	他们最後相互亲吻而fen1li2.	They exchanged a final kiss before parting.
一面	yi1mian4红旗徐徐升起。	A red flag slowly went up the pole.
自身	这种汽车可以在zi4shen1长度范围内掉头.	This car will turn in its own length.
订婚	他们ding4hun1的事成了镇上谈论的话题.	Their engagement is the talk of the town.
叫醒	其实用不着在清晨3点钟就把我jiao4xing3吧.	I could have done without being (ie I wish I hadn't been) woken up at 3 o'clock in the morning.
脑海	我们初次见面的情形时常浮现於我的nao3hai3.	Our first meeting often recurs to me/my mind.
芝加哥	这班机是经纽约飞往Zhi1jia1ge1的.	This flight is routed to Chicago via New York.
号令	霍勒斯沾沾自喜于自己的权力。他就是那个拉动响鞭发hao4ling4的是暴徒，是头子。	Horace was relishing his power. He was the tough, the big shot, who gave orders with the crack of a whip.
大小	该雕像da4xiao3为实体的两倍。	The statue is twice life-size.
新手	不要责备他，他毕竟是个xin1shou3。	Don't blame on him, after all, he is a green hand.
工程	他主持修建这座桥的建筑gong1cheng2。	He directed the building of the new bridge.
詹姆斯	Zhan1mu3si1头上裹着穆斯林的头巾，看上去很陌生。	James looks strange with a turban around his head.
引发	这一误会yin3fa1了激烈的争论.	Bitter arguments ensued from this misunderstanding.
柠檬	ning2meng2味的品尝起来或闻起来有ning2meng2味的	Tasting or smelling like lemons.
越南	印度支那半岛东南亚的一个半岛，包括Yue4nan2、老挝、柬埔寨、泰国、缅甸和马来西亚的大陆部分。历史上这一片地区曾受印度（尤其是印度教文化）和中国的影响	A peninsula of southeast Asia comprising Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Burma, and the mainland territory of Malaysia. The area was influenced in early times by India(particularly the Hindu culture) and China.
预约	我们为圣诞节的聚会yu4yue1了一位魔术师.	We've booked a conjuror for our Christmas party.
账单	请把zhang4dan1给我好吗？	Could I have the bill, please?
库	公司决定任命一位新司ku4。	The company decided to appoint a new treasurer.
教师	玛丽胜任jiao4shi1的工作吗？	Is Mary competent as a teacher?
预计	yu4ji4他在比赛中会轻易获胜。	He is expected to win the game with ease.
礼品	她对购买生日li3pin3的事非常在行.	She's got the business of buying birthday presents down to a fine art.
治愈	目前仍没有zhi4yu4感冒的良药。	There is still no cure for the common cold.
百姓	军职人员常被禁止与平民bai3xing4友好往来.	Army personnel are often forbidden to fraternize with the civilian population.
采用	该学院cai3yong4新的外语教学法。	New methods of teaching foreign languages are adopted in this institute.
相投	他们因趣味xiang1tou2很快就变得十分融洽。	Similar tastes soon thawed them.
天然	他们只用tian1ran2颜料染毛织品。	They used only natural pigments to dye the wool.
离去	他给马装上鞍子便骑马li2qu4了。	He saddled up his horse and rode away.
车辆	这些道路上che1liang4行人很多。	There was a lot of traffic on the roads.
番茄	我上当了! 这些fan1qie2一半是坏的!	I've been diddled! Half of these tomatoes are bad!
困扰	老师的说明澄清了kun4rao3的问题。	The teacher's explanation clarify the puzzling problem.
官员	那位guan1yuan2必须免职。	That officer must be removed.
传递	请把这份文件依次chuan2di4给他人。	Please hand on the document to others.
开头	哼一哼你喜爱的曲子的kai1tou2几个小节.	Hum the opening bars of your favourite tune.
惊人	羚羊跑起来有时速度jing1ren2.	Gazelles can movewith astonishing velocity.
法语	他的叔叔教他Fa3yu3。	His uncle instructed him in French.
作出	他为阻止她zuo4chu1了极大的努力。	He made strenuous attempts to stop her.
有意	她似乎是you3yi4地做这些事。	She seems to do these things on purpose.
可悲	所提出的事实会揭示社区中普遍存在的一种ke3bei1的情形。	The facts quoted would reveal a sorry state of affairs in any community.
导演	他一直在讨好dao3yan3, 想在剧中扮演主角.	He has been courting the director, hoping to get the leading role in the play.
牌子	汽车型号，汽车pai2zi5制成品的型号或pai2zi5，尤指汽车	A model or brand of a manufactured product, especially an automobile.
冰淇淋	我们去吃bing1qi2lin2吧。	Let's go for an ice cream.
长久	年高德劭的具有与年纪，智谋或chang2jiu3使用相关的品质的；值得尊敬的	Having the qualities associated with age, wisdom, or long use; venerable.
走进	他从容不迫地zou3jin4室内。	He entered the room with deliberate steps.
总部	详细的资料可从我们的zong3bu4得到。	Further information can be obtained from our head office.
摄像机	不占空间的she4xiang4ji1；小型汽车	A compact camera; a compact car.
缠	他告诉照相的人别再chan2著他.	He told the photographers to stop pestering him.
环	链条中薄弱的一huan2	A weak link in a chain.
一团糟	院子里已经是yi1tuan2zao1，更不用说房子了	The yard is a mess, to say nothing of the house.
摧毁	他们也想cui1hui3地下室。	Also they want to destroy the basement.
宁静	我们都喜欢乡村生活的ning2jing4。	We all like the tranquility of the country life.
吃饱	她自己省着吃，好让孩子们chi1bao3。	She stinted herself of food in order to let the children have enough.
增强	你太畏缩了--要尽量zeng1qiang2自信心.	You're too timid you must try to assert yourself more.
俄国	这块地毯是E2guo2风格的。	This carpet is of Russian style.
复仇	在这篇爱情背叛和fu4chou2的故事中，表现了阴森可怖的想像力，真是刺激，棒极了。	A darker imagination is at work in this story of betrayed love and revenge. Strong meat and very good.
游客	you2ke4们开车向西北而去。	The tourists drove northwest.
艺人	西非歌舞yi4ren2在西非地区保持村落或家族口头传统和历史的讲故事者	A storyteller in western Africa who perpetuates the oral tradition and history of a village or family.
青菜	把土豆和qing1cai4传一传－－小心，烫手。	Pass the potatoes and the greens--careful, they're hot.
幸存者	撞船事故发生地区的所有船只都参加了搜寻xing4cun2zhe3的工作。	All the ships in the vicinity of the crash joined in the search for survivors.
品味	他精于pin3wei4。	He has a refined palate.
康复	他现已从中风病完全kang1fu4了。	He's now fully recovered from his stroke.
顺心	她做护士很不shun4xin1, 但当管理人员似乎倒很适合.	As a nurse she got very frustrated, but being an administrator seems to suit her.
设	他落入敌人she4的圈套。	He fell into a snare laid by his enemy.
圣经	他引用《sheng4jing1》来支持他的信仰。	He quotes the Bible to support his beliefs.
西装	他穿着一套黑xi1zhuang1。	He is wearing a black suit.
地面	di4mian4缓缓向南倾斜。	The land dips gently to the south.
愉悦	欢叫声表示yu2yue4或欢喜的口齿不清的声音	An inarticulate sound expressive of pleasure or delight.
职责	权利和zhi2ze2是分不开的.	Rights are inseparable from duties.
火车票	你拿到huo3che1piao4了吗？	Have you got your train ticket?
费用	总计fei4yong4为500英镑.	The total cost comes out at 500.
理性	着迷愚蠢的，非li3xing4的或过分的激情或迷恋	A foolish, unreasoning, or extravagant passion or attraction.
亲手	希望你喜欢这件东西, 这是我qin1shou3做的.	I hope you'll appreciate this: it's all done by my/mine own fair hand.
上涨	物价shang4zhang3引起了叛乱。	The rise in prices was a signal for rebellion.
洋葱	我特别不喜欢yang2cong1。	I especially dislike onions.
大雪	da4xue3妨碍了这项建筑工程的进行。	Heavy snow hindered the construction work.
聆听	他们怀着浓厚的兴趣ling2ting1着演讲者。	They listened to the speaker with profound interest.
丢掉	我diu1diao4钥匙之后，真正遇到了麻烦。	I was really up the creek when I lost my keys.
逃走	强盗们在警察到来之前tao2zou3了。	The robbers escaped before the police arrived.
出场	特写一种简要但有戏剧性的重要演员的chu1chang3，如动作画面的单一场景	A brief but dramatic appearance of a prominent actor, as in a single scene of a motion picture.
寻求	科学家仍在xun2qiu2治疗感冒的方法。	Scientists are still searching for a cure to the common cold.
周一	Zhou1yi1周二连续两天我们都将开会。	We shall have meetings on two consecutive days, Monday and Tuesday.
深处	洞穴的最shen1chu4有只狗熊。	There is a bear in the inmost recesses of the cave.
几百	恐龙已绝种ji3bai3万年了。	Dinosaurs have been extinct for millions of years.
视	他珍shi4生命。	He holds life dear.
绘画	你有hui4hua4的才能吗?	Have you got a talent for painting?
婚纱	那个女孩穿着hun1sha1格外美丽动人。	The girl is all the more beautiful in her wedding gown.
跟着	大雨紧gen1zhe5闪电而来。	Heavy rain came on the heels of the lightening.
通往	辛勤工作是tong1wang3成功之路。	Hard work is the gateway to success.
大事	da4shi4具有重要意义的事件或事变	A significant occurrence or happening.
捉	我经常到海滩去zhuo1小虾和螃蟹。	I often go to the beach to catch shrimps and crabs.
团聚	他们与丢失的女儿tuan2ju4时的场面该多麽欢乐。	Imagine the joyful scene when they were reunited with their lose daughter.
买卖	让我看看mai3mai5这块土地的所有官方文件。	Let me see all the official documents concerning the sale of this land.
年底	该装置将於nian2di3投入生产.	The device will be in production by the end of the year.
废物	你那个fei4wu4儿子在哪儿呢?	Where's that good-for-nothing son of yours?
碎片	闪光泡一种内部装有铝箔或镁箔的精细sui4pian4的玻璃灯泡，用电点燃以发出短暂的高强度闪光，从而拍摄照片	A glass bulb filled with finely shredded aluminum or magnesium foil that is ignited by electricity to produce a short-duration high-intensity light flash for taking photographs.
界	他在医务jie4工作。	He is a member of the medical fraternity.
查出	他被cha2chu1得了不治之症。	He was found in incurable disease.
搬家	咱们考虑一下ban1jia1的利弊吧。	Let's consider the pluses and minuses of moving house.
滑雪	他已整装待发要去hua2xue3了.	He was all kitted out to go skiing.
巧合	这部小说的情节多靠qiao3he2安排而无真实感。	The plot of the novel relies too much on coincidence to be realistic.
一同	我们凑巧yi1tong2到达这儿。	By coincidence, we arrived here at the same time.
气死	向导们把我qi4si3了，所以嘛，我今天杀掉了其中一个，还叫人给做成标本摆在我们的纪念品室。	Guides have annoyed me so, that today I kill one and am had him stuffed for our trophy rooms.
风雨	防feng1yu3的能经受风吹雨淋而不受损害的	Capable of withstanding exposure to weather without damage.
星期六	这个图书馆星期一至xing1qi1liu4都开放。	The library is open on weekdays only.
狂欢	圣诞节我们度过了一个kuang2huan1之夜。	We spent a riotous night at Christmas.
无情	他提出一个wu2qing2的要求。	He made an inexorable demand.
灰色	这个和尚穿着hui1se4的僧袍。	This monk wears a gray frock.
看出	我可以从她的眼睛里kan4chu1她的喜悦。	I can see her gladness in her eyes.
举手	反对该议案的人ju3shou3。	Those who are in opposition to the bill put up your hand.
保罗	彼得挨著bao3 luo2坐在沙发上。	Peter sat next to Paul on the sofa.
士	他是理科硕shi4。	He is a Master of Science.
日志	ri4zhi4，日记对于事件、经历及感想的有规律进行的私人记录；ri4zhi4	A personal record of occurrences, experiences, and reflections kept on a regular basis; a diary.
变形	bian4xing2形状的扭曲	A distortion of shape.
吓坏	那响声把我xia4huai4了.	That noise scared me.
夜里	头一天ye4li5，我们在一个小居民点停留下来。	On the first night we stopped over in a small settlement.
假日	我在jia4ri4愿意轻松一些.	I like to take things easy when I'm on holiday.
牛排	你的niu2pai2要几分熟？	How do you want your steak?
困惑	他被从监狱释放使我们kun4huo4不已。	His deliverance from the prison puzzled us.
医学	她是活的yi1xue2教科书.	She's a walking textbook of medicine.
相伴	闪电总与雷鸣xiang1ban4。	Lightening is usually accompanied by thunder.
心目	他心向往之的是要面对面地见见他xin1mu4中的流行曲歌星。	His ambition was to meet his favourite pop star face to face.
惊醒	她步子很轻, 以免jing1xing3孩子.	She trod lightly so as not to wake the baby.
赶走	他同攻击他的人进行搏斗，最后把他们gan3zou3了。	He struggled with his assailants and eventually drove them off.
情意	祝福夫君生日快乐，你给流逝的岁月增添了醉人的qing2yi4，你让平凡的事情发出耀眼的光芒，感谢你已成为我生命中特别重要的一部分。	Happy birthday to my dear husband. You add a special happiness to days that come and go. You give an extra sparkle to the ordinary things. It's so nice to have you being a special part of my life.
晨	chen2会在学校礼堂举行.	Morning assembly is held in the school hall.
掌声	大家以热烈的zhang3sheng1欢迎她.	She was received with warm applause.
奶油	nai3you2的与nai3you2相关的、含nai3you2的或从nai3you2中提取的	Relating to, containing, or derived from butter.
恐龙	我们根据kong3long2的一些骨头重组kong3long2的原貌.	We reconstructed what the dinosaur looked like from a few of its bones.
思	她此刻若有所si1.	Something seems to be preoccupying her at the moment.
传送	他变换了无线电chuan2song4的频率。	He varied the transmission frequency.
入侵	ru4qin1的军队将该城镇掠夺一空。	The town was pillaged by the invading army.
加强	已请他来jia1qiang2後卫力量.	He has been brought in to strengthen the defence.
泰国	印度支那半岛东南亚的一个半岛，包括越南、老挝、柬埔寨、Tai4guo2、缅甸和马来西亚的大陆部分。历史上这一片地区曾受印度（尤其是印度教文化）和中国的影响	A peninsula of southeast Asia comprising Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Burma, and the mainland territory of Malaysia. The area was influenced in early times by India(particularly the Hindu culture) and China.
语文	yu3wen2教学既是一门科学又是一种艺术。	Language teaching is both a science and art.
自在	他对未来感到轻松zi4zai5并且充满信心。	He felt at ease and confident about the future.
必备	你有进入加拿大bi4bei4的签证吗?	Have you the requisite visa to enter Canada?
上场	比赛结束前十分钟罗布森shang4chang3替代威尔金斯.	Robson came on in place of Wilkins ten minutes before the end of the game.
坐车	到那儿去，步行比zuo4che1容易。	It's easier to get there on foot than by car.
漫漫	小路man4man4消失在密林深处.	The path petered out deep in the forest.
价钱	这所房子应该卖个好jia4qian5。	This house should fetch a good price.
本地	东部ben3di4的或长自东部的	Native to or growing in the east.
喷	熨衬衫领要先pen1些粉浆再熨.	Spray starch on the shirt collars before ironing them.
渐	物价jian4趋稳定.	Prices are steadying.
运动员	她看起来像yun4dong4yuan2。	She looks like an athlete.
深情	他以一个shen1qing2的拥抱来迎接她。	He greeted her with a loving hug.
体力	女子在ti3li4上而不是智力上比男子弱。	Woman is physically but not mentally weaker than man.
寒	他竖起大衣领抵御han2风.	He turned up his coat collar against the chill wind.
路口	我们来到了岔lu4kou3，不能决定走哪一条岔路。	We came to a fork in the road and could not decide which fork we should take.
关上	一阵大风吹来，把门guan1shang5了。	A gust of wind blew the door shut.
地下室	di4xia4shi4里有地方存放不用的家具之类的东西.	There's room in the cellar to store unused furniture and what have you.
途中	我们的信在邮寄tu2zhong1错过去了.	Our letters crossed in the post.
各种	他受到ge4zhong3诱惑的包围。	He was surrounded by temptations.
好心	那个hao3xin1的大教主负责我们这个教区。	That kind archbishop is responsible for our church district.
家园	他们渴望返回jia1yuan2.	They were pining to return home.
看起来	时装杂志kan4qi5lai5很有光泽。	Fashion magazines are glossy.
冻死	晚霜能dong4si3园中的植物。	Late frosts are ruination for the garden.
心思	我没有xin1si5跟你争论.	I'm not in the mood to disagree with you.
享乐	无所事事的xiang3le4很快就使人厌烦了。	The pleasures of idleness soon cloy.
杀戮	大屠杀大规模sha1lu4，如战争中的大屠杀；屠宰	Massive slaughter, as in war; a massacre.
临	lin2睡前请拔下电视机的插头.	Please unplug the TV before you go to bed.
天上	tian1shang4的云彩	The clouds above.
硬币	ying4bi4滚到钢琴的下面了。	The coin rolled underneath the piano.
上天	这一灾难被视为shang4tian1的惩罚.	The disaster was seen as a judgement from on high.
礼服	公主光彩照人地穿着一身雪白的新li3fu2来了。	The princess arrived, resplendent in a new white dress.
蜘蛛	zhi1zhu1能用zhi1zhu1网抓住昆虫。	The spider can catch insects by cobweb.
难度	这位体操选手敢于做惊险的高nan2du4动作	The gymnast dared a breathtakingly difficult move.
公益	社会gong1yi4服务机构和当地医生应该加强协作。	There should be a lot more interaction between the social services and local doctors.
须	饮用水均xu1过滤净化.	All drinking water must be filtered.
东北	霍索恩美国新泽西州dong1bei3部一自治村镇，位于帕特森dong1bei3偏北。主要为住宅区，有多种轻工业。人口17，084	A borough of northeast New Jersey north-northeast of Paterson. It is primarily residential with varied light industries. Population, 17,084.
顺风	我们的船长下令调整风帆，shun4feng1行驶。	Our captain ordered us to square away and sail before the wind.
半天	我们（各处）找了ban4tian1, 却找不到那本书.	We searched (around) for hours, but couldn't find the book.
生涯	摩西率领以色列人脱离在埃及的奴隶sheng1ya2。	Moses led the Israelites out of their bondage in Egypt.
幻觉	吸毒成瘾的人常常产生huan4jue2.	Drug addicts often hallucinate.
会见	我被带到後台去hui4jian4演员.	I was taken backstage to meet the actors.
电影院	dian4ying3yuan4不远, 你可以走到那去。	The cinema is not far, you can get there on foot.
盼	请将你方现有目录尽速寄来为pan4.	Please rush me (ie send me immediately) your current catalogue.
鸡肉	我爱吃做得中等熟的ji1rou4。	I like my chicken medium well do.
毫无疑问	这是hao2wu2 yi2wen4的。	There's no question about it.
期盼	眼中闪耀着qi1pan4的目光	Eyes shining with expectation.
睡衣	把电炉打开，在穿shui4yi1睡裤之前把它们先烤热。	Put on the electric fire and warm your pyjamas before putting them on.
定位	要乘飞机必须提前ding4wei4子。	To ride in an aeroplane you have to book in advance.
丢脸	被降级的降级的、diu1lian3的或降低尊严的	Reduced in rank, dignity, or esteem.
相识	我见希尔夫人面熟, 但并不xiang1shi2.	I know Mrs Hill by sight, but we've never met.
禁忌	他抛弃了一切jin4ji4.	He cast aside all his inhibitions.
威士忌	你想喝杯麦芽wei1shi4ji4吗？	Would you like a cup of malt whisky?
老朋友	他发财之後把lao3peng2you5都抛弃了.	When he became rich he threw over all his old friends.
基本上	我ji1ben3shang5同意你的建议, 但是有几个小问题有待商榷.	Basically I agree with your proposals, but there are a few small points I'd like to discuss.
软弱	他会被认为是个ruan3ruo4无能的领导人。	He will be considered a weak leader.
通道	再往里走，坑道缩小成了一条窄窄的tong1dao4。	The tunnel contract to a narrow passageway as you go deep.
事务所	一些亲属团团围住运输shi4wu4suo3焦急地向工作人质问个不休。	Relatives besieged the shipping office and plied the staff with anxious inquiries.
解开	她用灵巧的手指jie3kai1了金属线.	With deft fingers she untangled the wire.
视觉	他有良好的shi4jue2记忆力。	He has a good visual memory.
有用	这本参考书对我you3yong4处吗？	Is this reference book of any use to me?
虫子	chong2zi5已经蛀穿了木料。	Worms have bored into the wood.
苏格兰	约翰和琼是同胞，他俩都是Su1ge2lan2人。	John and Jean are compatriots because they both come from Scotland.
胡萝卜	你应该吃hu2luo2bo5、芹菜和菠菜这类的蔬菜。	You should eat such vegetables as carrot, celery and spinach.
交谈	他与会计深入jiao1tan2.	He was deep in conversation with his accountant.
饿死	为抢救那些即将e4si3的人而分秒必争。	It was a race against time to stop people dying from starvation.
近日	您jin4ri4询问的书暂时无货, 谨此奉覆.	In answer to your recent inquiry, the book you mention is not in stock.
出名	他以精力充沛而chu1ming2。	He was noted for his vigor.
触	他尽力chu4到了球.	He managed to get a touch to the ball.
靴子	小孩穿着紧绷的xue1zi5很难受。	The child was uncomfortable in his tight boots.
古老	这是一个gu3lao3的寓言。	This is an ancient parable.
想像	你的母性本能远比你xiang3xiang4的强.	Your maternal instincts go deeper than you think.
腰带	这yao1dai4是在前面打结还是在後面？	Does this sash tie in front or at the back?
吸烟	xi1yan1有害於健康.	Smoking damages your health.
执着	她终于嫁给了最zhi2zhuo2追求她的人。	She eventually married the most persistent one of her admirers.
肮脏	我们一见到那旅店昏暗ang1zang1, 心里就很不痛快.	Our first sight of the dingy little hotel did not inspire us with much confidence/inspire much confidence in us.
债	他还清了zhai4。	The man rid himself of debt.
厅	这ting1最多容纳七十人。	This hall holds a maximum of seventy people.
阴影	他最近去世给家庭聚会蒙上了yin1ying3。	His recent death overshadowed the family gathering.
初中	他正在上chu1zhong1。	He is studying at a junior middle school.
败	bai4军很快就投降了。	The beaten army soon surrendered.
行程	大雨耽搁了我们的xing2cheng2。	The heavy rain delayed our journey.
我国	wo3guo2每四年一次人口普查。	The census is taken one time every four years in our country.
打动	她花言巧语也未能da3dong4他们卖掉别墅。	All her wiles were not enough to persuade them to sell the villa.
求助	我设法自立而不qiu2zhu4于我的父母。	I tried to stand on my own two feet rather than turned to my parents.
罪名	他被警察拘捕，控以强行进入他人住宅的zui4ming2。	He was held by the police or a charge of breaking and entering.
埃及	他拍了一部关于Ai1ji2的电影。	He made a film about Egypt.
热水	她从re4shui3瓶倒出re4shui3。	She poured hot water from the thermos.
沉	这条船chen2下四英寻。	The ship sank in four fathoms.
模拟	军事训练演习以一场mo2ni3战结束。	The army training exercises ended with a mock battle.
紧紧	她jin3jin3地挨著他.	She snuggled close up to him.
丹尼	我叫Dan1ni2·琼斯。不过我用教名的略称：丹。	I am Daniel Jones, but I go by my nickname, Dan.
自制	犬儒学派古代希腊哲学学派的成员，认为美德是唯一的善的东西，zi4zhi4是唯一获得美德的方法	A member of a sect of ancient Greek philosophers who believed virtue to be the only good and self-control to be the only means of achieving virtue.
磨	我已mo2过这把斧子。	I have milled this axe.
坚信	我jian1xin4我们最后会胜利。	I fervently believe in our eventual victory.
每年	mei3 nian2春天河水把山谷淹没。	Every spring the river floods the valley.
扔掉	他吃掉了李子，并reng1diao4了果核。	He ate the plum, and threw the core away.
金字塔	那地点用一堆堆成jin1zi4ta3形状的石头作了标记。	A pyramid of stones marked the spot.
大胆	有一次他da4dan3提出了自己的看法。	Once he made bold to air his views.
近期	我们jin4qi1的信件卷宗在哪里?	Where's the file of our recent correspondence?
亲眼	我qin1yan3看见暗杀的情景，真令我毛骨悚然。	I saw the assassination and it got under my skin.
走出	他zou3chu1法庭时耷拉著脑袋.	He had his head down as he walked out of the court.
鸿运	衷心祝愿hong2yun4高照，美满姻缘，天长地久。	May this day be start of long happy prosperous life for you both.
街区	这个jie1qu1的供暖系统不太好用。	The heating system in this block doesn't work well.
死人	他的怪衣裳简直笑si3ren2。	His weird clothes really gas me.
穿着	她chuan1zhuo2一件深蓝色的上衣。	She wore a dark blue coat.
欢呼	huan1hu1声在远处逐渐消失了.	The sound of the cheering faded (away) in the distance.
同行	同事tong2hang2、职员或学院教工的同僚之一；同事	A fellow member of a profession, a staff, or an academic faculty; an associate.
奶	乾酪是固体，nai3是液体。	Cheese is a solid; milk is a liquid.
停电	我正在做晚饭时ting2dian4了。	While I was cooking supper the electricity went off.
姓名	请说明xing4ming2、年龄和职业。	Please state your name, age and occupation.
喜庆	xi3qing4时节，欢庆盛会欢庆活动的时节或盛会	A season or an occasion of joyful celebration.
休假	旅馆工作人员等到淡季再xiu1jia4.	Hotel workers wait until the off-season to take their holidays.
评	期末考卷已ping2完分数了.	The term papers have been graded.
深入	我部队已shen1ru4到敌占区.	Our troops have penetrated (into) enemy territory.
伊拉克	遭遇Yi1la1ke4上校的最初片刻，目睹他令士兵在我们面前劫掠我们车里的物件，我们的生命似乎危在旦夕。	For the first few moments, confronted by an Iraqi colonel who had his soldiers loot our vehicle in front of us, it seemed as if our lives hung by a precarious thread.
证词	法庭听取了zheng4ci2.	The court heard the evidence.
主宰	她因其技术奇货可居，故可以zhu3zai3自己的薪金待遇。	Her skill is in such demand that she can dictate her own salary.
星期一	今天要是星期三，前天就是xing1qi1yi1。	If today is Wednesday, the day before yesterday is Monday.
赛季	我队今年sai4ji4赢五场而未输过.	Our team has had five wins and no losses this season.
缝	钢笔从我指feng4中滑下去了。	The pen slips out of my fingers.
笔记	小男孩喜欢在书页空白边上做bi3ji4。	The little boy likes to make notes in the margin of books.
种种	这使我们遇到zhong3zhong3困难。	That got us into all kinds of difficulties.
终结	绝经期，更年期生命的一个阶段，特征是标志妇女生殖能力zhong1jie2及以停经完成为结束的生理、心理变化	A period of life characterized by physiological and psychic change that marks the end of the reproductive capacity of women and terminates with the completion of menopause.
远方	汽车的声音消失在yuan3fang1.	The noise of the car died away in the distance.
乏味	哦，实际上很fa2wei4的。	Oh, they are very dull actually.
倒下	人们抵受不住酷热而纷纷dao3xia4.	Men were dropping like flies in the intense heat.
中毒	警方掘出尸体, 发现有zhong4du2的痕迹.	When the police exhumed the corpse they discovered traces of poison in it.
排骨	他大约十分钟就吃完了两份pai2gu3和一满盘青菜，而且吃完还要。	He knocked off two chops and a plateful of vegetables in about ten minutes, and then asked for more.
捅	她用伞tong3了那男子一下。	She gave the man a prod with her umbrella.
诊所	临床指导在zhen3suo3讲授或指导研讨的人	One who conducts sessions or teaches at a clinic.
轿车	约翰拥有一部jiao4che1，我也有。	John owns a car and so do I.
货车	她把客huo4che1向左一闪以免轧著狗。	She pulled the van to the left to avoid a dog.
警察局	jing3cha2ju2长命令警察集合。	The sheriff ordered the policemen to gather.
早日	zao3ri4举行大选确有可能.	An early general election is certainly on the cards.
猎人	lie4ren2捕获了一只豪猪。	The hunter seized a porcupine.
外科	医院进口了一些wai4ke1器械。	The hospital imported some surgical instruments.
坏蛋	那个huai4dan4已被收买。	That scoundrel has been got at.
血迹	医生用显微镜作了xue4ji4检查。	The doctor had a microscopic examination of traces of blood.
相聚	朋友偶尔xiang1ju4畅谈上学时的大好时光.	The friends met occasionally to chat about the good old days at school.
参议员	这名can1yi4yuan2因逃避缴纳所得税而受到指责。	The senate was censured for income tax evasion.
拔	把塞子ba2掉.	Pull the plug out.
录制	采访过程是预先lu4zhi4好的.	The interview was pre-recorded.
马克	她曾经写信给ma3ke4吗？	Has she ever written a letter to Mark?
垒	替捕的一lei3安打；第二lei3替补偷击	A pinch single; a pinch steal of second base.
忏悔	他对chan4hui3的罪人一概慈悲为怀。	He is kind and gracious to all sinners who repent.
心事	苏珊xin1shi5重重。	Susan is in a thoughtful mood.
葡萄酒	今年的pu2tao2jiu3产量前景不佳.	The prospects for this year's wine harvest are poor.
形	他把黏土捏成xing2。	He pinched the clay into shape.
播出	终于bo1chu1相声了！	The cross- talk is on at last!
什么的	我是唯一明了老师真正在说shen2me5de5人。	I am the only one to pick up on what the teacher is really saying.
发给	公司fa1gei3她奖金以酬谢她工作努力。	The firm repaid her hard work with a bonus.
感叹	｀啊!＇、 ｀小心!＇、 ｀哎哟!＇都是gan3tan4词语.	`Oh!', `Look out!' and `Ow!' are exclamations.
飞船	很快，fei1chuan2离开了地球，大家俯视着下面这颗燃烧着的星球。	Soon, the spaceship left Earth, and everyone looked down at the burning planet.
原地	他们断定还是呆在yuan2di4好。	They figured it was better to stay where they were.
收回	我要求你必须立刻shou1hui2那些过头的话.	I insist that you withdraw your offensive remarks immediately.
外国	这所大学有许多wai4guo2教授。	There are many foreign professors in this university.
老天爷	碰到这样容易的考卷, 那是lao3tian1ye2的恩赐.	To have such an easy examination paper was a gift from the gods.
誓言	法官听取了他们的忠诚shi4yan2	The judge received their oath of allegiance.
废	不合理的规则被fei4除了。	The unreasonable rules were revoked.
橄榄球	的确，新闻媒介及公众对法国gan3lan3qiu2队选拔员的尊重，几乎同法国政治家受到的尊重不相上下，当然，那也并非多大的荣耀。	Indeed French rugby selectors receive just about the same respect from their Press and public as do French politicians, which, of course, isn't saying much.
面部	这种疾病能引起mian4bu4色素斑沉著.	The disease causes patches of pigmentation on the face.
部长	bu4zhang3的敌人密谋陷害他。	The minister's enemies engineered his ruin.
刷	你的大衣需要shua1乾净, 上面满是灰尘.	Your coat needs brushing down. It's covered in dust.
每周	mei3 zhou1配给我们两个鸡蛋。	We were rationed to two eggs a week.
戒烟	你愈早jie4yan1愈好。	You cannot quit smoking too soon.
人数	申请这份工作的ren2 shu4多得惊人.	There were an astonishing number of applicants for the job.
紫色	那个女孩喜欢穿zi3se4的衣服。	That girl likes to wear purple dresses.
巴西	Ba1xi1有很多剩余咖啡。	Brazil has a big surplus of coffee.
办事	【谚】人多好ban4shi4。	Many hands make light work.
上床	她掀起毯子shang4chuang2去了.	She turned down the blankets and climbed into bed.
味儿	你尝得出炖肉里有大蒜wei4r5吗?	Can you taste the garlic in this stew?
出售	该房供chu1shou4并能立即占有。	The house is for sale with vacant possession.
逃离	在内战期间成千上万的人tao2li2了这个国家.	During the civil war thousands of people fled the country.
凑	我们每人cou42英镑, 让约翰去给大家买吃的.	We each put 2 in the kitty, and then sent John to buy food for everybody.
戒酒	在jie4jiu3问题上，怀特先生是主张完全戒掉。	In the temperance question, Mr White takes his stand on total abstinence.
菲	她的姨妈埃fei1真是个怪人.	Her Aunt Effie is certainly an original.
失控	模型飞机shi1kong4坠落下来。	The model plane got out of control and crashed.
险	我的房子保了火xian3。	My house is insured against fire.
水晶	我在晚会上丢失了shui3jing1项链。	I lost my crystal necklace at the party.
相逢	像这样与你在此xiang1feng2真好比一场梦!	Meeting you here like this is positively surreal!
柔软	石头上长着一些rou2ruan3的苔藓。	There grows some spongy moss on the stone.
当天	他很倒霉，在考试dang4tian1生病了。	He had the misfortune to fall ill on the day of the examination.
卑微	他从未忘记过自己出身bei1wei1.	He never forgot his humble origins.
何处	莎士比亚葬於he2chu4?	Where is Shakespeare buried?
告知	在此期间，我们将保留上述箱子，听候你方处理。你方对此作何处理请gao4zhi1为盼。	Meanwhile we are holding the above-mentioned case at your disposal, please let us know what you wish to do with it.
昏	头上受了一击后，他hun1过去了一会儿。	The blow on the head dazed him for a moment.
无助	狠心的女巫对孤苦wu2zhu4的小女孩施发妖术。	The heartless witch cast a spell on the poor little girl.
知心	这个女孩非常幸运，她的妈妈是她的zhi1xin1朋友。	The girl was fortunate enough to have her mother as a bosom friend.
房地产	这个公司出租fang2di4chan3。	This company leases out property.
外出	他只是短期wai4chu1--至多一周.	He's only away for short periods a week at the longest.
珠宝	这家商店也销售廉价zhu1bao3。	The shop sells baubles as well.
用品	这家商店供应各种野营yong4pin3。	The shop furnishes everything that is needed for camping.
魔力	念咒口头咒语或符咒的仪式性的吟诵以产生mo2li4的效果	Ritual recitation of verbal charms or spells to produce a magic effect.
海上	海鸥在大hai3shang4飞翔。	Gull flies over the sea.
追逐	切勿zhui1zhu2自己的帽子——人家会乐意为你追回来的嘛，何必去扫人家的兴。	Never run after your own hat—others will be delighted to do it; why spoil their fun.
西班牙语	Xi1ban1ya2yu3与拉丁语近似。	Spanish is akin to Latin.
抢走	劫匪把钞票一把qiang3zou3了.	The robber swooped up the banknotes.
起点	循环，周而复始结束在其qi3dian3或持续重复其自身的系列或过程；循环	A series or process that finishes at its starting point or continuously repeats itself; a cycle.
怎么回事	zen3me5 hui2 shi4？你为什么哭？	What's the matter? Why are you crying?
鼓	我们听见敲gu3的声音.	We heard the beat of a drum.
墓	他们站立在她的mu4的周围向她默哀.	They stood in silent homage round her grave.
违法	夜晚行车不开亮头灯是wei2fa3的.	Driving without headlights at night is illegal.
有着	中国是一个you3zhe5悠久历史的东方国家。	China is an oriental country with a long history.
鹿	lu4有些种类能脱换lu4角.	Some kinds of deer shed their horns.
内疚	她付了维修费以减轻nei4jiu4感。	She paid the repair bill as a salve to her conscience.
吃掉	易腐烂的食物要尽快chi1diao4.	Perishables need to be consumed as quickly as possible.
怪人	guai4ren2一个奇特或怪癖的人；guai4ren2	A peculiar or eccentric person; a character.
尽可能	我会设法jin3ke3neng2多储蓄。	I will try to save as much as I can.
暂停	审讯zan4ting2一星期[下星期继续进行].	The trial was adjourned for a week/until the following week.
大多	现在房屋da4duo1用电照明.	Nowadays, houses are mostly lit by electricity.
会面	我们什么时候hui4mian4合适？	What time is suitable for us to meet?
检索	数据媒体的初始化，使某一特定计算机系统能将数据存在媒体中，随后又可从该媒体中jian3suo3出来。	The initialization of a data medium such that a particular computer system can store data in and subsequently retrieve data from the medium.
营地	ying2di4有充足的食品供应。	The camp has a plentiful supply of food.
上下	一个频带的shang4-xia4界频率之差，单位用赫兹表示。	The difference, expressed in Hertz, between the two limiting frequencies of a band.
单词	老师在黑板上写出新dan1ci2。	The teacher wrote down the new words on the blackboard.
应得	他侵吞了其他人ying1de2的钱。	He screwed the others out of their share of the money.
歌唱	她ge1chang4得象小鸟一样快乐。	She sing as merrily as a little bird.
赛车	汽车sai4che1呼啸而过.	Racing cars screamed past.
结尾	影片jie2wei3的暴力场面太过分了.	The film's violent ending is completely over the top.
随机	分子扩散运动两种或更多种物质的分子由于sui2ji1的热运动自发混合在一起	The spontaneous intermingling of the particles of two or more substances as a result of random thermal motion.
少许	他的性格中有shao3xu3忧郁的气质。	There is a vein of melancholy in his character.
身后	他听到shen1hou4有响声，便转过身来。	He turned around as he heard a noise behind him.
使得	是什麽原因shi3de5他如此 大方呢?	What prompted him to be so generous?
言语	他的yan2yu5伤害了读者的感情。	His words hurt the reader's sensibility.
宽恕	在文明时代，这麽残忍是不能kuan1shu4的。	In an age of enlightenment such cruelty is unforgivable.
瓦	每一排wa3都搭在下面的一排上.	Each row of tiles laps the one below.
堂	下一tang2课我要讲小数.	I'll deal with decimals in the next lesson.
满怀	他对我的成功man3huai2羡慕。	He was filled with envy at my success.
契约	qi4yue1诉讼对违背这种合同要求赔偿损害	A suit to recover damages for violation of such a contract.
万岁	人们齐声欢呼: ｀国王wan4sui4!＇	The whole crowd took up the cry: `Long live the King!'
前方	绕过qian2fang1的礁石。	Steer clear of the rocks ahead.
评论家	她是位眼光敏锐的艺术ping2lun4jia1.	She is a very discerning art critic.
粘	这种胶水zhan1不住.	This glue doesn't stick very well.
发作	根据解剖结果，此人死于心脏病fa1zuo4。	According to the result of the dissection, the man died from heart attack.
箭	他们把jian4射向敌人。	They discharged their arrows at the enemy.
冰冷	夜间的寒气使他感到bing1leng3彻骨。	The night air chilled his bones.
大便	你的da4bian4里有血或粘液吗？	Be there any blood or mucus in your stool?
色情	有的人看到se4qing2杂志能激发起性欲。	Some people are sexually excited by pornographic magazines.
爬上	公共汽车艰难地pa2shang4陡峭的山岗.	The bus toiled up the steep hill.
订票	这家旅馆为旅客提供ding4 piao4服务。	The hotel provides a reservation of tickets for its residents.
备用	你的汽车上有bei4yong4车轮吗?	Do you carry a spare wheel in your car?
行事	他要我们谨慎xing2shi4。	He told us to proceed with caution.
球场	qiu2chang3很大, 呈椭圆形.	The playing-field is a large oval.
人儿	她缠绵地思念着心爱的ren2r5。	She lingered on the thought of her loved ones.
指挥官	zhi3hui1guan1决定把大规模的进攻推迟到春天进行.	The commander decided to postpone the big push until the spring.
简介	该报每周刊登一篇关於一个优秀运动员的jian3jie4。	The newspaper publish a profile of a leading sportsman every week.
亲近	＂与此同时，两小时前放进去了一只麦克风，使这些人能与他们最qin1jin4的亲属保持联系。＂	Meanwhile, a microphone, which was lowered into the mine two hours ago, has enabled the men to keep in touch with the closest relatives.""
商人	这个shang1ren2向他行贿。	The businessman offers bribes to him.
猪肉	zhu1rou4炼出的油可用来煎炸食物.	The grease from pork can be used for frying.
合伙人	她的he2huo3ren2企图骗走她的股份。	Her partner tried to trick her out of her share.
源于	莱茵河发yuan2yu2何处？	Where is the source of the Rhine?
笑脸	他摆出一幅xiao4lian3，不过这似乎让他使尽了全身的气力。	He summoned up a smile, though it seemed to take all his strength.
困境	kun4jing4中，他坚定的信仰支撑着他。	His firmness on his belief supported him in difficulties.
相片	他总是把女朋友的xiang4pian4放在身边。	He always kept the picture of his girlfriend's close at hand.
念头	就是那nian4tou5把我弄得头昏脑胀.	The very idea sets my head reeling.
台北	这儿的气候和Tai2bei3非常相似。	The climate here is like that of Taipei.
果子	他嘱咐这人说：“你可以随意采食园中任何树上之果实，惟独那能辨善恶之知识树guo3zi5你不能吃。你吃它之时，你就会死去！”	He told the man, ""you may eat from every tree in the garden, but not from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil; For on the day that you eat from it, you will certainly die.""
品	救济pin3已急速送到.	Relief supplies were rushed in.
人选	我认为他是更合适的ren2xuan3。	In my estimation, he is a more suitable candidate.
身心	一天黄昏时，他走到野外去舒散shen1-xin1，抬头看见有一个骆驼队向他走来。	One evening when he had gone out into the open country to relieve himself, he looked up and saw camels approaching.
洋	【谚】涓滴之水汇成yang2。	Little drops of water make the mighty ocean.
烈火	熊熊lie4huo3席卷森林。	Billows of flame swept through the forest.
西部	布里斯托尔位於英格兰的xi1bu4.	Bristol is in the west of England.
唇	候选人在辩论中chun2枪舌箭。	The candidates exchanged shafts in the debate.
拿出	他从箱子里na2chu1一本书。	He took out a book from the case.
情谊	这些与世隔绝的人之间有强烈的兄弟般的qing2yi4.	There is a strong spirit of fraternity among these isolated people.
居	他在生活中甘ju1中游。	He prefers a happy medium in life.
维多利亚	二等兵琼斯（因勇敢）被授予Wei2duo1li4ya4十字勋章.	Private Jones was awarded the Victoria Cross (for his gallantry).
秒钟	30miao3zhong1後发射升空.	Blast-off is in 30 seconds.
雄	那种鸟xiong2鸟的喙呈橙色, 与雌鸟不同.	The male's orange beak differentiates it from the female.
胃痛	你的wei4tong4好些还是更坏了?	Is your stomach getting better or worse?
更年期	伴随着geng1nian2qi1的内分泌变化使很多妇女的情绪受到影响。	A lot of women are affected emotionally by the hormonal changes that accompany the change of life.
上路	她背起帆布背包就shang4lu4了.	She shouldered her rucksack and set off along the road.
无罪	陪审团认定该囚犯wu2zui4。	The jury found the prisoner not guilty.
指出	指定，指明指有；标明，zhi3chu1	The act of designating; a marking or pointing out.
处处	他chu4chu4与我作对.	He crosses me in everything.
返回	指挥部命令宇宙飞船fan3hui2地球.	Mission control ordered the spacecraft to return to earth.
正面	这块布哪一面是zheng4mian4?	Which is the right side of the cloth (ie the one intended to be seen)?
火灾	他在huo3zai1中伤了左手。	He injured his left hand in a fire.
击中	那块石头ji1zhong4他头部的侧面.	The stone caught him on the side of the head.
振作	zhen4zuo4起来，面对冲击！	Brace yourself for a shock!
心意	这房子本身并不特别合我的xin1yi4，但我喜欢它周围的环境。	The house itself is not particularly to my mind, but I like its environment.
冰山	bing1shan1把那船撞出了窟窿.	The ship was holed by an iceberg.
逃脱	那囚犯挣扎著（要摆脱那些逮他的人）, 却未能tao2tuo1.	The prisoner struggled (against his captors) but couldn't escape.
带子	你的雨衣系上dai4zi5更好看.	Your mackintosh looks better belted.
馅饼	她吃了两客分量很足的xian4bing3。	She had two generous helpings of pie.
改造	那个项目的gai3zao4已经完成。	The transformation of that project has been finished.
名义	我不会以各种各样的ming2yi4做这件事。	I will never do this under all sorts of names.
后退	英军的阵线被迫hou4tui4一段距离。	The British line was forced back a short distance.
剧院	她一演唱ju4yuan4就满座.	Opera houses were packed out whenever she was singing.
遭到	她多次zao1dao4同事侮慢.	She suffered many slights from colleagues.
充电	我的汽车电池没电了, 需要chong1dian4.	My car battery has run down; it needs recharging.
山顶	shan1ding3上终年积雪。	The mountain peaks are covered with snow all year.
试用	他买了那个新产品想shi4yong4一下。	He bought the new product to give it a trial.
夏威夷	Xia4wei1yi2群岛是美国的属地吗？	Are the Hawaiian Islands a dependence of the USA?
食用	亚麻籽油可以shi2yong4吗？	Is linseed oil edible?
豁免权	他有外交huo4mian3quan2。	He has diplomatic immunity.
粉	请把黄豆捣成fen3。	Please pound up the soybeans.
时装	现今的shi2zhuang1式样变换很快。	The fashions of today change very quickly.
传来	喜讯chuan2lai2，他心情很好。	The good news put him in fine fettle.
大火	消防队员无法控制这场da4huo3。	The firemen were unable to control the blaze.
亲吻	他们俩在公园的长凳上拥抱qin1wen3。	The two of them were necking on a park bench.
许下	作为一个候选人，他xu3xia4诺言，使前途一片光明。	As a candidate, he held forth the promise of a bright future.
钉	从前的人把监犯的头ding1在尖桩上.	In former times, prisoners' heads were impaled on pointed stakes.
过夜	晚9时把犯人锁进牢房guo4ye4.	At 9 pm the prisoners are locked in for the night.
星期天	xing1qi1tian1对你合适吗?	Will Sunday suit you?
杀人犯	sha1ren2fan4被判处死刑。	The murderer was sentenced to death.
纠缠	他这人真讨厌! 我很庆幸能摆脱他的jiu1chan2.	He was a boring nuisance! I'm glad to be rid of him.
环保	huan2bao3部门要求我们使用无烟煤。	We are required by environment protecting department to use anthracite.
上台	他们的党一shang4tai2，他们就开始修改法律。	As soon as their party came into power they changed the law.
海底	这些生物生活在太平洋的hai3di3。	These creatures live in the depth of the Pacific Ocean.
唐山	在1976年，无数的房屋因Tang2shan1地震而倒坍。	Numerous houses collapsed as a result of the Tangshan Earthquake in1976.
大腿	膝处于坐姿的人从腰到膝盖的da4tui3正面部位	The front area from the waist to the knees of a seated person.
挂念	他非常gua4nian4他有病的母亲。	He is full of concern about his sick mother.
民众	公众作为一个整体的社会或min2zhong4	The community or the people as a whole.
幕后	他呆在mu4hou4为了避开公众的注意。	He stayed in the background to escape from the public attention.
铁路	她给了我一张tie3lu4网图解。	She gave me a diagram of railway network.
零下	昨夜温度是ling2xia4五度。	It was five below zero last night.
嫌疑犯	警方正在审讯两个xian2yi2fan4.	The police are interrogating two suspects.
留意	我会liu2yi4的。	I'll keep my eyes open.
低头	在大多数的主要交叉路口，都有一幅街道（朗巴德街、俄亥俄街、市场街等等）的详图刻在人行道的石头上。只要你di1tou2看一下，就知道自己所在的位置了。	At most of the important crossings there is a plan of the streets(Lombard Street; Ohio Street; Market Street; and so on)cut into the stone of the sidewalk so that you can look down and see where you are.
疑犯	警方对yi2fan4昼夜监视.	The police are keeping the suspects under round-the-clock surveillance.
同伴	不要与坏tong2ban4往来。	Don't associate with bad companions.
修好	把我的电视机xiu1hao3要花去我10000日元。	It cost me ten thousand yen to have my television set repaired.
勇士	那个印度yong3shi4用剑刺穿了对手的身体。	The Indian warrior passed a sword through his opponent.
一模一样	我总是分不出这对姐妹, 她们看上去简直yi1mu2-yi1yang4.	I always confuse the sisters: they look so alike.
翻译	请你为我fan1yi4一下好吗？	Would you please interpret for me?
费城	这里摘登一封＇亲爱的爱毕＇的回信，刊登在一九七三年三月九日的＇Fei4cheng2公报＇上。	Here is a letter adapted from DEAR ABBY, Philadelphia Bulletin, March9,1973.
不满	她脸上有bu4man3的表情。	There was an expression of discontent on her face.
树林	在杂shu4lin2里有只老鼠。	There is a mouse in that copse.
暑假	他不远万里来中国度shu3jia4。	He has come over to China for the summer.
海边	我们在hai3bian1度过了愉快的时光。	We had a glorious time at the seaside.
比利	不，我要去看一出国剧，Bi3li4昨天给我一张招待券。	No, I'm going to see a Chinese opera. Billy gave me a complimentary ticket yesterday.
月份	二月是一年的第二个yue4fen4.	February is the second month of the year.
升起	他们sheng1qi3了国旗。	They ran up their national flag.
时时刻刻	你应当shi2shi2-ke4ke4注意礼节.	It behoves you (ie You ought) to be courteous at all times.
窗口	她从火车chuang1kou3里伸出手挥动手帕道别。	She fluttered her handkerchief from the train window as a good-bye.
莫过于	事实上，最引不起我兴趣的mo4guo4yu2烹调了。	Nothing interests me less than cooking, as a matter of fact.
山东	他们支持日本接管德国以前在Shan1dong1省的所有权益。	They supported Japan's take over of all the former German interests in Shandong Province.
橘子	桌上有两只苹果和一只ju2zi5。	There are two apples and an orange on the table.
烟火	yan1huo3砰的一声爆开了.	The firework exploded with a loud bang.
下巴	他的xia4ba5凸出很多。	His chin juts out rather a lot.
踏上	华侨们非常高兴地ta4shang5祖国的土地。	The overseas are very glad to set foot on their homeland.
目的地	侦察员向mu4di4di4疾驰而去。	The scout spurred on to the destination.
星光	他抬眼凝视着头顶上方xing1guang1闪烁的天空。	He stared up at the stars twinkling in the sky above him.
赚钱	公共汽车星期日行驶不一定准能zhuan4qian2。	It is not always economic for buses to run on Sunday.
做完	他花了半个小时zuo4wan2这项工作。	It took him half an hour to finish the work.
用力	我们yong4li4挤过人群。	We thrust our way through the crowd.
知己	甚至他最zhi1ji3的朋友也劝阻他去寻求更高的职位。	Even his closest friends discouraged him from seeking higher office.
店铺	小职员迪克很快就被排挤出了这家dian4pu4。	Dick, the junior clerk, was soon shouldered out of the shop.
奔跑	孩子们在花园里嬉戏ben1pao3。	The children were scampering around the garden.
卡片	这ka3pian4有什么用?	What's this card good for?
股市	gu3shi4上股票价格暴跌.	Share prices tumbled on the stock-market.
拿下	这次袭击成功, na2xia4了堡垒.	The attack succeeded,and the fort was taken.
南瓜	他妻子做了一些nan2gua1馅饼作晚餐。	His wife made some pumpkin pies for supper.
流星	liu2xing1在空中画出了一道长长的弧线。	The falling star described a long curve in the sky.
青蛙	qing1wa1跳进了沟里。	The frog jumped into the ditch.
恋情	我与彼得情思未断之际, 却遇上了哈里又生lian4qing2.	I was still getting over Peter when I met and fell in love with Harry.
成真	我希望他成为钢琴家的梦想可以cheng2zhen1。	I hope his dream of becoming a pianist will come true.
提名	到现在已ti2ming2多少人了?	How many nominations have there been (ie How many people have been nominated) so far?
勾引	这位女秘书一心忙于gou1yin3新来的经理，简直未觉察到办公室里人人都在暗中笑她。	The secretary was so busy getting her hooks into the new manager, that she hardly noticed that everyone in the office was laughing at her.
许愿	在选举前后政客们总要xu3yuan4讨好民众。	Politicians bid for popular favour around election time.
蘑菇	请务必用点mo2gu5。	Do have some mushrooms.
高贵	门第gao1gui4的gao1gui4血统的	Of noble lineage.
英寸	她的腰围是26ying1cun4.	She has a 26-inch waist.
诺言	他用虚假的nuo4yan2哄骗了她。	He deluded her with empty promises.
万物	春天里wan4wu4欣欣向荣。	Nature is at its best in spring.
装作	他zhuang1zuo4若无其事, 藉以掩饰内心的不安.	He conceals his worries behind a mask of nonchalance.
穿上	早晨很冷，他chuan1shang5了一件厚毛衣。	He put on a thick sweater since it was cold in the morning.
风向	feng1xiang4的突然转变预示着暴风雨即将来临。	A sudden shift in the wind warned of the coming storm.
伤痕	他身上的一处处shang1hen2证明他曾受到严刑拷打。	His scars bore witness to the torture he had suffered.
脸色	她lian3se4苍白难看.	She had a ghastly pallor.
才华	她演唱歌曲既有风度又有cai2hua2。	She performs the songs with style and flair.
一月	大家都认为，约翰要在yi1yue4中旬搞一次野外宴会的计划是一个傻主意。	Everybody thought that John's plan to have a barbecue in the middle of January was a half-witted idea.
活儿	我最讨厌累huo2r5!	I'm allergic to hard work!
金色	落日把天空染成jin1se4。	The setting sun gilds the sky.
服用	运动fu2yong4於正式婚礼中是不适当的.	Sports clothes are not appropriate for a formal wedding.
清白	她保持着qing1bai2的名声。	She keeps a spotless reputation.
签字	他伪造父亲的qian1zi4.	He faked his father's signature.
头部	石子打中了我tou2bu4的侧面.	The stone struck me on the side of the head.
发火	别对我fa1huo3--那不是我的错!	Don't get stroppy with me it's not my fault!
右手	她的you4shou3上戴着一枚镶有绿宝石的戒指。	She wears a ring set with emeralds on her right hand.
平民	他辞去军职而从事ping2min2工作.	He resigned his commission to take up a civilian job.
有力	我不得不承认他的论据you3li4.	I was compelled to (ie I had to) acknowledge the force of his argument.
匆匆	对。。。cong1cong1一看，一瞥	Take a glance of...
全程	他在比赛中坚持跑完了quan2cheng2，不像大部分选手那样半途而废。	He managed to finish the race, unlike more than half of the competitors.
多数	duo1shu4旧电影片都是黑白的.	Most old films were made in black and white.
海报	hai3bao4上的字体非常醒目.	The lettering on the poster is very eye-catching.
前天	qian2tian1我见过他，但后来再没见过他。	I see him the day before yesterday, but have not see him since.
好用	我不计较价钱，只要车很hao3yong4就行了。	I don't care about the price, so long as the car is in good condition.
香烟	xiang1yan1在地毯上烧了一个窟窿.	The cigarette burnt a hole in the carpet.
明日	议会定於ming2ri4解散.	Parliament dissolves tomorrow.
决不	jue2bu4应该责备她.	She was in no way to blame.
出乎	这次考试之难chu1hu1我的意料之外。	The exam is more difficult than I have bargained for.
不利	委员会工作伊始即十分bu4li4.	The committee began its work under unfavourable auspices.
差劲	让联赛中最cha4jin4的队打败了? 这是永远也忘不了的事!	Beaten by the worst team in the league? They'll never live it down!
背包	她把帆布bei1bao1转到身後.	She swung the rucksack (up) onto her back.
亚当	假使Ya4dang1重返人间，他会懂得的恐怕只有那些老掉牙的笑话了。	If Adam came on earth again the only thing he will recognize will be the old joke.
沿着	我yan2zhe5弯曲的山路回家。	I went home along a winding mountain path.
花样	这两个hua1yang4我都不喜欢。	I like neither of the designs. (=I don't like either of the designs.)
芯片	整本书的内容只用一片硅xin1pian4就可以装下。	The entire content of a book will be located on a single silicon chip.
十万	如果请费尔南德斯走路，教育局可以付钱马上终止合约，或是让他做满任期。费尔南德斯按规定可以在十九万五的年薪之外，还可以领未用病假和其他福利折合现金四shi2wan4元。	If Fernandez is shown the door, the board could either buy out his contract immediately or allow him to serve out his term. Fernandez is set to collect$400, 000 in past sick pay and other benefits on top of his$195, 000 salary.
巴士	是否可在此购买观光ba1shi4券？	Can I get a ticket for the sight- seeing bus here?
飞行员	宇宙飞船里有五个fei1xing2yuan2。	There are five spacemen in the spaceship.
挣钱	能zheng4qian2并不一定是衡量人生幸福的可靠标准.	Success in making money is not always a good criterion of success in life.
致敬	他们肃立向她zhi4jing4.	They stood in silence as a mark of honour to her.
皇家	huang2jia1园林卫队保护huang2jia1森林和公园的看守者	The keeper of a royal forest or park.
中级	我已经通过了日语的zhong1ji2水平考试。	I've passed the intermediate level exam of Japanese.
吞	那鱼轻咬[浮向/咬著了/tun1下了]鱼饵.	The fish nibbled at/rose to/took/swallowed the bait.
麽	今晚的菜单上有什mo2菜?	What's on the menu tonight?
授权	对于非shou4quan2用户其意义是隐蔽的数据。	Data whose meaning is concealed from unauthorized users.
讲述	她在协会中借助图片jiang3shu4其印度之行.	She gave the society an illustrated talk on her travels in India.
到此为止	汽车路线dao4ci3wei2zhi3了, 你得叫辆的士。	The bus route goes as far as that, so you'll need to take a taxi.
照相	除了一本zhao4xiang4簿外, 我还给了他一支钢笔和一支铅笔。	In addition to an album, I gave him a pen and a pencil.
五十	我母亲已经wu3shi2岁了。	My mother is fifty years old.
展	我站着zhan3望湖面。	I stand looking over the lake.
鸟儿	niao3r5展开翅膀飞翔。	The birds fly with wings outspread.
哈里	没多久，Ha1li3就跟在我们背后跑来了。	Before long Harry came running behind us.
看似	她接待他时始终准确地把握好分寸，kan4si4冷淡，却不失礼。	The manner in which she received him was calculated to a nicety to seem cool without being uncivil.
荣耀	光荣的，rong2yao4的；辉煌的	Having or deserving glory; famous.
基于	抗辩一种表示反对的方法即：同意对方论据中的事实，但是否定对方ji1yu2这些事实的辩护	A method of objecting that admits the facts of the opponent's argument but denies that they sustain the pleading based upon them.
跌倒	他die1dao3时,头碰到箱子的一角。	He fell and hit his head on the corner of a box.
古巴	尽人皆知，苏联对Gu3ba1这时的发展感到不快，""这位［欧洲］外交官说。可是他又说，苏联允许国内及东欧有较多的自由，""若强行逼迫加勒比海的盟邦，那可真是矛盾。""	It's no secret that the Soviets are not happy about the developments here in Cuba, "" the [European] diplomat said. But he added that with the Soviets permitting more freedom at home and within Eastern Europe, ""it would be a real contradiction to twist the arm of its Caribbean ally.""
精神病	这一定很小，目前jing1shen2bing4的诊断方法还发现不了。	It must be so small that present methods of psychiatric diagnosis cannot find it.
茄子	在我们的菜园里，我们种了qie2zi5，黄瓜和土豆。	In our garden we have egg-plants, cucumber and potato.
内地	狭航道一个狭窄的，从海岸通往nei4di4的航道；海峡	A narrow passage extending inland from a shore; a channel.
清洗	洗涤qing1xi3的过程；qing1xi3	The process of washing; a cleansing.
住院	她已zhu4yuan4去切除阑尾.	She's gone into hospital to have her appendix taken out.
动物园	他们要去dong4wu4yuan2或打排球。	They will go to the zoo or play volleyball.
十三	他已有shi2san1年未在电影中露面了。	He hadn't appeared in a film for thirteen years.
宝石	把这些bao3shi2藏在保险箱里.	Shut the jewels up in the safe.
应当	军人ying1dang1绝对服从命令。	Soldiers are expected to obey their orders without question.
傲慢	ao4man4是他的惟一缺点。	Arrogance is the only hole in his coat.
英镑	总数为10ying1bang4.	The total works out at 10.
手枪	他用shou3qiang1向我射击，我及时向后一跳没被射中。	He snot a pistol of me. I jumped back in time to avoid being shot.
领带	宽阔的道路；宽大的ling3dai4	A wide road; a wide necktie.
瑞士	Rui4shi4以制表业和美丽的风景而闻名。	Switzerland is famous for its watchmaking and beautiful scenery.
四十	他统治了这个国家si4shi2年。	He reigned over the country for forty years.
骗局	结果证明一切都是场pian4ju2。	It proved that everything was a mare's nest.
的士	这些勇敢di2shi4兵会保卫我们的国家的。	These gallant soldiers will protect our country.
计算机	她对ji4suan4ji1有广博的知识。	She has a broad knowledge of computers.
白宫	早餐时总统会见了Bai2 Gong1的高级助手.	The President met with senior White House aides at breakfast.
日落	ri4luo4时我们抵达了港口.	We reached (the) harbour at sunset.
烈日	lie4ri4照射著这个地方.	The hot sun shone down on the scene.
短裤	这条裤子被改成了duan3ku4。	This pair of pants was converted into shorts.
待会儿	我得把电话号码记下来，以免dai1hui5r5忘记。	I'll just jot down their phone number before I forget it.
货物	这些huo4wu4定价过高.	These goods are priced too high.
知名	他毕业于一所zhi1ming2的外语学院。	He graduated from a famous foreign language institute.
肤色	法律适用於所有的人, 不分种族、 信仰或fu1se4.	The laws apply to everyone irrespective of race, creed or colour.
被迫	敌人bei4po4撤退。	The enemy was forced to retreat.
含量	低血糖症血液中葡萄糖不正常地低han2liang4	An abnormally low level of glucose in the blood.
确	她对成功已que4有把握。	Success is within her grasp.
赔	那家航运公司为此而pei2了不少钱。	The shipping line lost considerably by it.
白白	我愿意bai2bai2地将它给你。	I will give it to you for nothing.
秋天	九月的天气确实像qiu1tian1了。	The weather in September was positively autumnal.
照看	炊事员去zhao4kan4炉子里的蛋糕了。	The cook went to see after the cake left in the oven.
囚犯	法官把qiu2fan4释放了。	The judge discharged the prisoner.
蚊子	我们在沼泽地受到wen2zi5的围攻。	In the swamp we were beset by mosquitoes.
血管	血在他的xue4guan3中流动.	The blood coursed through his veins.
热量	一盎司糖可以供给多少卡re4liang4？	How many calories can an ounce of sugar supply?
丑闻	这chou3wen2使他当选的希望破灭了.	The scandal dished his hopes of being elected.
厨师	我是个手艺平平的chu2shi1。	I'm an indifferent cook.
金子	她戴了那么多首饰，看上去象是包在jin1zi5里似的。	She wore so much jewellery that she seemed to be covered in gold.
大雨	da4yu3使场地变得坑坑洼洼。	The ground was pitted by the heavy rain.
瞒	我要发火了，你为何man2我这么多事？	I shall lose my temper. Why do you hide so much from me?
离别	我们li2bie2时我如何忍得住眼泪呢？	How shall I withhold from tears when we part?
香味	xiang1wei4从厨房飘了出来.	Delicious smells were emanating from the kitchen.
夹克	先生，你要不要试穿一下这件jia1ke4衫，看看尺寸是否合适？	Would you like to try this jacket on for size, sir?
请客	这顿饭我qing3ke4，你把钱收起来吧。	This meal is my treat, so put your money away.
外地	那船是开往wai4di4的.	The ship is outward bound.
外加	同函奉上55美元书款支票一张，wai4jia1每册14分邮费在内。请查收。	I am enclosing a cheque for$55.00 which covers the cost of the book plus the postage charge of14 cents a volume.
村庄	那cun1zhuang1位於山脚下.	The village nestled at the foot of the hill.
损伤	身体的sun3shang1，发炎或sun3shang1	A bodily injury, irritation, or trauma.
追捕	这帮人正被警方zhui1bu3。	The gang is being hunted by the police.
专	他zhuan1爱说人闲话.	He's a terrible gossip.
荷兰	在He2lan2，人们拦海造田已开垦了成千上万公顷的土地并将它们变成可耕地和牧场。	In Holland thousands of hectares have been reclaimed from the sea and turned over to arable land and pasture.
心碎	【谚】人若无希望，xin1sui4肝肠断。	If it were not for hope, the heart would break.
便秘	bian4mi4有困难的、不完全的或不经常从肠道排泄干燥且硬的大便	Difficult, incomplete, or infrequent evacuation of dry, hardened feces from the bowels.
基督	Ji1du1派Ji1du1十二使徒之一宣传他的教义。	Apostles were sent out by Christ to spread his teachings.
自称	她zi4cheng1精通计算机，其实她是假充内行。	She claims to know all about computers but really she's a sham.
小屋	他把xiao3wu1的阁楼当作阅读室。	He made the attic in the small house a reading room.
太过	她一定要孩子们穿得暖暖的，他们有点小毛小病便提心吊胆，她对他们实在关心得tai4guo4分了。	She does fuss the children about so-making sure they're well wrapped up, and worrying about minor illnesses.
厄	格雷e4姆，肯尼思1859－1932英国作家，以其散文和儿童文学著名，著名的有杨柳风（1908年）	British writer known for his essays and children's books, notably The Wind in the Willows(1908).
凯特	Kai3te4，到这边来。	Kate, come over here.
流逝	随著时间的liu2shi4, 我的记忆力似乎越来越差.	As time goes by my memory seems to get worse.
表姐	原来她姑姑就是我biao3jie3.	It turns out that her aunt and my cousin are one and the same (person).
隆	突然火车轰long2long2地驶入一个隧道，四周的一切都漆黑一团。	Suddenly the train roared into a tunnel and everything was black.
不准	我想在十字路口下车可bu4zhun3。	I wanted off at the cross road, but was refused.
引爆	地雷，水雷一种用来摧毁敌军部队、船舰、碉堡或装备的爆破装置，通常安放在隐蔽处，由于接触、靠近或定时而yin3bao4	An explosive device used to destroy enemy personnel, shipping, fortifications, or equipment, often placed in a concealed position and designed to be detonated by contact, proximity, or a time fuse.
警卫	总统的汽车由摩托车jing3wei4护行.	The President's car was flanked by motor-cycle outriders.
救援	jiu4yuan2人员挖地道通向那些探察洞穴的人.	The rescuers tunnelled their way (in) to the pot-holers.
户外	孩子们喜欢hu4wai4活动。	Children like outdoor activities.
守候	猎人shou3hou4着兔子从洞里出来。	The hunter watched for the hare to come out of the burrow.
呈	满月cheng2圆形。	The full moon has a circular form.
佳人	他们放了录像片《乱世jia1ren2》。	They showed a video of ""Gone with the Wind"".
转眼	zhuan3yan3间他就无影无踪了。	He disappeared in a twinkling of an eye.
收费	她的学费是每学期440英镑, 音乐和舞蹈课另外shou1fei4.	Her school fees are 440 a term; music and dancing are extras.
切成	把面包qie1cheng2小片，然后给我两片。	Cut the bread into small rounds and give me two.
减轻	疼痛已在jian3qing1。	The pain was already lessening.
永久	纪念馆址已选定在加拿大作为yong3jiu3的纪念.	The site of the memorial is granted in perpetuity to Canada.
当真	你认为他dang4zhen1要离开公司吗？	Do you think he is serious about leaving the company?
不会	bu4hui4发很多时间的。	It won't take much time.
海外	hai3wai4贸易成为主要的项目。	The overseas trade has become the main project.
院子	树木环绕着那个yuan4zi5。	Trees environ the yard.
预定	我想yu4ding4一个房间。	I want to reserve a room.
马丁	Ma3ding1·路德·金在以非暴力手段寻求平等的过程中树立了许多敌人。	Martin Luther King made many adversaries in his nonviolent quest for equality.
音乐会	少数民族yin1yue4hui4持续了两个小时。	The minority nationality concert lasted two hours.
私下	幕后的，秘密的隐瞒公众的；si1xia4的	Concealed from the public; private.
寻常	奇异的不xun2chang2的或特别的；奇妙的	Remarkable or extraordinary; wonderful.
收看	千百万观众非常著迷地shou1kan4这部电视连续剧.	Millions of fans follow the TV soap operas devotedly.
心理学	我们需要几个男子作xin1li3xue2实验对象.	We need some male subjects for a psychology experiment.
倾诉	他向朋友qing1su4烦恼事。	He confided his troubles to his friend.
所作所为	他的suo3zuo4-suo3wei2皆取决於一己之利.	Self-interest governs all his actions.
安稳	有个孩子常常能使年轻的父母an1wen3下来。	Having a baby often steadies young parents down.
动人	你简直dong4ren2极了, 亲爱的!	You look simply divine, darling!
直达	这列火车是否zhi2da2伦敦？	Does this train go right through to London?
公务员	gong1wu4yuan2须签署遵守公务保密条例.	Civil Servants are required to sign the Official Secrets Act.
剧场	ju4chang3的地板斜度太大了一点。	The rake of the theater floor is a bit too steep.
深度	海洋测深学，海洋测深术测量大水域的shen1du4	Measurement of the depth of large bodies of water.
雇员	经理把工作尽量平均分配给gu4yuan2.	The manager tried to even out the distribution of work among his employees.
塑料	这些盘子是用一种su4liao4制造的.	A kind of plastic stuff is used to make the plates.
爱好者	他是个业余摄影ai4hao4zhe3。	He is an amateur photographer.
眨眼	你能瞪着看多长时间不zha3yan3?	How long can you stare without blinking your eyes?
闯入	修建这堵高墙作为屏障以防外人chuang3ru4.	The high wall was built as a defence against intruders.
躲避	暴风雨时，我正在树下duo3bi4。	In the storm I took shelter under the tree.
棺材	柩车装运guan1cai5去教堂或墓地的车辆	A vehicle for conveying a coffin to a church or cemetery.
抑制	设法yi4zhi4你的怒火！	Try to contain your anger!
切断	小心别qie1duan4了手指头!	Mind you don't cut your fingers off!
声称	占星家sheng1cheng1能预知祸福.	Astrologers claim to be able to divine what the stars hold in store for us.
自助	伤残人士在治疗中, zi4zhu4自立是个重要因素.	Self-help is an important element in therapy for the handicapped.
威廉	我伯伯Wei1lian2上周去世了，他享年９０岁奋斗一辈子了。	My Uncle William passed away last week; he was ninety, and game to the end.
次数	他随著年龄的增长, 弹钢琴的ci4shu4越来越少了.	He played the piano less and less as he grew older.
转转	把方向盘往右边zhuan4zhuan5, 好修正驾驶上的偏差.	Turn the wheel to the right to correct the steering.
闪亮	星星在晴朗的夜空shan3liang4。	Stars are brilliant in the clear night sky.
专注	这孩子zhuan1zhu4地听着童话故事。	The child devours fairy tales.
懦弱	他的nuo4ruo4的行为遭到了同事们的嘲笑。	His cowardly behavior was laughed at by his colleagues.
关联	副现象在一种疾病中出现的附带条件或症状，与该病无必要guan1lian2	An additional condition or symptom in the course of a disease, not necessarily connected with the disease.
三角	san1jiao3形的san1jiao3之和等于180°。	The angles of a triangle total 180.
清单	他将他的名字写在qing1dan1上。	He wrote down his name on the list.
书店	他把一捆就杂志卖给了旧shu1dian4。	He sold a bundle of old magazines to the second hand bookstore.
灌	我需要一个漏斗把汽油guan4进油箱.	I need a funnel to pour petrol into the tank.
猜测	这正如我所cai1ce4的.	It was just as I had conjectured.
游泳池	那个男孩正在you2yong3chi2里游泳吗？	Be the boy swimming in the swimming-pool?
随后	sui2hou4的，后来的时间上较后的；sui2hou4的	Following in time; subsequent.
首席	shou3xi2书记官某些法院中的最高书记官	The principal clerk in certain courts of law.
机关	暗ji1guan1一种用来欺骗、行骗或欺诈的装置，尤指秘密地和欺骗地控制赌博器具的机械装置	A device employed to cheat, deceive, or trick, especially a mechanism for the secret and dishonest control of gambling apparatus.
新疆	我请求他从Xin1jiang1回来时给我带些葡萄干。	I asked him to bring me some raisins when he returns from Xinjiang.
前后	他坐在摇椅里qian2-hou4摇晃着。	He rocked back and forth in his rocking chair.
对联	据悉，在审理戈蒂时，格拉瑟dui4lian2邦调查局、检察官、被告律师以及媒体毫不客气。他打了好几通电话给塞申斯，要他必须查出《每日新闻》的消息来源。	Glasser, who rode roughshod over the FBI, prosecutors, defense lawyers and the press during the Gotti trial, made a series of telephone calls to Sessions demanding that the sources for The News story be found, sources said.
喜事	喂，玛丽，何时有xi3shi4？快了吧。	Hello, Mary, when's the happy event? It can't be long now.
星期三	我们一xing1qi1san1节化学课。	We have three periods of chemistry a week.
烟雾	（城市）上空yan1wu4弥漫.	Smog hung in the sky (over the city).
审讯	shen3xun4持续了一个星期.	The trial lasted a week.
取出	黄油从冰箱中qu3chu1会变软.	The butter will soften out of the fridge.
备	bei4有目录供索取.	Catalogues are available on request.
游行	人们穿著古装参加you2xing2.	People wore historical costumes for the parade.
不明	造成死亡的直接原因bu4ming2.	The immediate cause of death is unknown.
军人	我相信他天生是要当jun1ren2的。	I believe he is meant to be a soldier.
欢笑	垂柳迎风huan1xiao4。	Weeping willows laugh in the breeze.
圈子	该飞机的飞行速度可慢了一点，但它转的quan1zi5可以小得多——这在近距离激战中是一大优势。	The plane may be slightly slower but it can turn in a much tighter circle-a big advantage in a dog fight.
少校	＂由于他战斗中指挥英明，他被提升为shao4xiao4。＂	He was elevated to do the rank of major due to his wise command in the battle.
祈求	他日夜qi2qiu2上帝赋予他虔敬的心。	He prayed to God night and day to endue him with the spirit of holiness.
罪行	暴力zui4xing2要承受严厉的惩罚。	Crimes of violence carry heavy penalties.
下场	大多数歹徒最终都落得个不好的xia4chang3。	Most gangsters come to a sticky end eventually.
创伤	对乡村的掠夺给他们造成严重chuang1shang1。	The rape of the countryside had a profound ravage on them.
面孔	他渴望一见那些熟悉的老mian4kong3。	He yearned for a sight of the old, familiar faces.
全民	quan2min2抗击侵略者.	The whole country resisted the invaders.
为此	我wei4ci3实在感到很抱歉。	I really feel bad about that.
预备	请你把废物扔到yu4bei4好的垃圾箱里.	Please put your litter in the bin provided.
影像	敌舰的ying3xiang4已显现在雷达（屏幕）上.	Enemy ships were detected on the radar (screen).
抽筋	chou1jin1肌肉习惯性或过分活动引起的局部暂时性麻痹	A temporary partial paralysis of habitually or excessively used muscles.
按钮	遥控器上的Here／Therean4niu3可以控制任何一端的摄像机。	The here/there button on the remote control which side camera you are controlling.
祖母	我的zu3mu3是我们家史的资料库.	My grandmother is a mine of information about our family's history.
澳大利亚	Ao4da4li4ya4比英国更民主吗?	Is there more democracy in Australia than in Britain?
取代	在我家里, 咖啡qu3dai4了茶。	Coffee has taken the place of tea in my home.
洗手	他用香皂xi3shou3。	He washed his hands with a toilet soap.
叹息	他发出一声绝望的tan4xi1，转身走开了。	With a hopeless sigh, he turned away.
漫步	他在雪中man4bu4。	He is walking amidst the snow.
口水	我们闻到厨房里的香味直流kou3shui3.	The delicious smell from the kitchen made our mouths water.
纸条	在你读到的地方夹上张zhi3tiao2.	Put a piece of paper in (ie in your book) to mark your place.
使劲	他试著用叉子把罐头里的肉shi3jin4叉出来。	He tried to hoick the meat out of the tin with a fork.
上衣	我shang4yi1袖子上有个破口.	There's a tear in the arm of my jacket.
丢失	别为了diu1shi1一支笔就这样大惊小怪。	Don't make so much fuss over losing a pen.
杂	在za2树林里有只老鼠。	There is a mouse in that copse.
驾车	她jia4che1小心地从这条很多石头的小路上驶过去。	She drives carefully up the rocky lane.
出手	这地方因chu1shou3工艺品而出名。	The place is known for its handicraft products.
优惠券	他从商店里得到了几张you1hui4quan4。	He redeemed several coupons at the store.
早晚	无疑，她早zao3wan3晚会抛弃你的。	Sure enough, she'll let you down sooner or later.
久远	古董由于年代jiu3yuan3而具有特殊价值的物体，尤指由于工艺，美观和兴起时期等方面受到重视的土产，家具或手工艺品	An object having special value because of its age, especially a domestic item or piece of furniture or handicraft esteemed for its artistry, beauty, or period of origin.
替代	塑胶有时可以ti4dai4皮革。	Plastic is sometimes used instead of leather.
情愿	她qing2yuan4玩玩蜜蜂也不愿与愚人为伍。	She will rather fool with a bee than being with a fool.
艰辛	我们公司在经济衰退时期历尽jian1xin1。	In the recession, our firm go through a bad time.
夜班	她答应在孩子们的妈妈上ye4ban1时照顾这些孩子。	She promised to see after the children when their mother were on the night shift.
不妙	若非认识我们这位好朋友，我们的生活一定十分bu4miao4。	Our lives would have been greatly impoverished, if we had not known our dear friend.
陷	凹圆形凹xian4的线脚	A concave molding.
打死	那强盗厉声叫道: ｀不许动, 不然就da3si3你.＇	One false move and you're a dead man,' snarled the robber.
野兽	很多ye3shou4在春天繁殖。	Many animal breed in the spring.
问好	向你全家wen4hao3。	Remember me to your family.
武士	wu3shi4们冲进宫里保护国王。	The cavaliers rushed into the palace to protect the king.
怒火	他满腔nu4huo3。	He was inflamed with anger.
世人	这种思想只能把shi4ren2引入歧途。	Such ideas will only lead the world's people astray.
地产	di4chan3的发展逐渐占据了农田.	Increasingly, farm land is yielding to property development.
郎	布lang2太太以好客闻名。	Mrs Brown is known for her hospitality.
一家	那yi1jia1的电话被窃听。	The house is wiretapped.
铃声	那贼听到警ling2sheng1就飞快逃走了。	The thief ran like anything when he heard the alarm.
低落	他的悲观情绪感染得大家情绪di1luo4.	His pessimism has the effect of depressing everyone.
线路	xian4lu4上有短路需要换线.	The wiring is faulty and needs to be replaced.
负责人	我们的副经理是公司的实际fu4ze2ren2。	Our deputy manager is the virtual head of the business.
拳击	你傻了, 竟敢和重量级的quan2ji1冠军寻衅闹事!	It was foolish of you to pick a fight with a heavyweightboxing champion!
产	有些昆虫把卵chan3在地上.	Some insects deposit their eggs on the ground.
伯	史密斯小姐（去年访问了中国）打算嫁给爱尔bo2特先生。	Miss Smith( who visited china last year) is going to marry Mr. Abbott.
螃蟹	我　水时脚趾让pang2xie4给夹了.	A crab nipped my toe while I was paddling.
澳洲	兔子在Ao4zhou1是较为近期引进的动物.	The rabbit is a relatively recent introduction in Australia.
后台	hou4tai2传来的响声把南希吓坏了，她忘记了台词。	The noise backstage scared Nancy and she blew her lines.
来回	我步行一个lai2hui2用一小时。	It takes me an hour to walk there and back.
硬盘	它的用处是备份大量的数据或增加存储容量。ying4pan2的存储容量从几百兆字节不等。	Hard disks provide tremendous storage capacities ranging from hundreds of megabytes to several gigabytes.
现身	他声称他可以使鬼魂xian4shen1.	He claimed that he could make ghosts materialize.
运作	证券交易所的yun4zuo4情况大多数人都不了解。	The working of the stock exchange is beyond most people's ken.
非得	不管他愿意与否，他fei1dei3去参加讲座。	Whether he wanted it or not, he had to attend the lecture.
避开	如果要bi4kai1市中心，请从这里向右转弯。	To avoid the city center, turn right here.
带有	她戴着dai4you3貂皮的披肩	She wore her sable stole.
出国	chu1guo2前我必须进行体格检查。	I have to have a medical examination before going abroad.
思绪	他紧张地坐着，整理着他的si1xu4。	He sat nervously, marshal his thought.
肩	他把包裹扛上了jian1。	He hoisted the package over his shoulder.
试题	地理shi4ti2很难.	The geography paper was difficult.
热狗	比尔的母亲为比尔所属的俱乐部会员们准备re4gou3当点心，汤姆的母亲因此说她要招待得更好，除了给你们re4gou3外，另再加冰淇淋。	Bill's mother gave the boys in Bill's club hot dogs for refreshments, so Tom's mother said that she would go her on better next time by giving them ho dogs and icecream.
过头	我要求你必须立刻收回那些guo4tou2的话.	I insist that you withdraw your offensive remarks immediately.
丑陋	蟾蜍外表chou3lou4，但很有用。	Toads have an ugly appearance but they are useful.
发光	太阳使湿草闪闪fa1guang1。	The wet grass sparkles in the sun.
写信	公爵用一根羽毛笔xie3xin4。	The duke wrote a letter with a quill pen.
外遇	他采取双重标准: 自己可以有wai4yu4, 女方却不行.	He's got a double standard: it's all right for him to have affairs but not for her.
打发	他父亲da3fa5他到他叔父家去。	His father sent him off to his uncle's.
保住	据说轮船严重受损，详情正在调查之中，但我方利益已完全bao3zhu4，请电告伦敦公司。	Steamer report seriously damaged now ascertain particulars however our interest fully protected transmit to London
庄园	他继承了那片zhuang1yuan2及其一切特权.	He inherited the manor and all its appurtenances.
先锋	科伯，威廉1731－1800英国诗人，被认为是浪漫主义的xian1feng1。他的最杰出的作品任务赞美了农村生活和休闲	British poet considered a precursor of romanticism. His best-known work, The Task(1785), praises rural life and leisure.
劲儿	留著点儿jin4r5，你一会儿还得干重活儿呢。	Save your strength for the hard work you'll have to do later.
好转	她预测情况将继续hao3zhuan3.	She predicted that the improvement would continue.
蝙蝠	bian1fu2在夜间飞行，以昆虫为食。	Bats fly at night and feed on insects.
兮	安得猛士xi1守四方？	Where will I find brave men to guard the four corners of my land?
温	wen1文有礼是绅士的特质。	Politeness is the attribute of a gentleman.
赶来	他们从远处gan3lai2参观这个展览会。	They came from afar to see the exhibition.
王牌	梅花是wang2pai2.	Clubs is/are trumps.
火鸡	一篮子一篮子摘下来的棉花；退了毛的huo3ji1	Baskets of picked cotton; a picked turkey.
截	这些柳树需jie2去树梢.	The willows need to be pollarded.
水分	湿度是空气内含shui3fen4多少的量度.	Humidity is a measure of moisture in the atmosphere.
气球	他们周末喜欢乘qi4qiu2玩.	They like to go ballooning at weekends.
柜	她往餐具gui4里放了些盘子。	She put some plates in the sideboard.
熏	吃xun1大马哈鱼－－那可太棒了！	Smoked salmon what a treat!
携手	腐败与犯罪xie2shou3并行。	Corruption and crime go hand in hand.
加快	他jia1kuai4了步子。	He quickened up his pace.
裤	他把ku4带扣得紧紧的。	He buckled up his belt tightly.
迷恋	流行乐团迷跟随摇滚乐队巡回演出的mi2lian4者，尤指年轻女性	A fan, especially a young woman, who follows a rock group around on tours.
合约	我们在提供车辆方面与政府订有he2yue1.	We have a contract with the Government for the supply of vehicles/to supply vehicles.
保险箱	我把一切东西都锁在bao3xian3xiang1里以防万一。	I took the precaution of locking everything in the safe.
景	他是一个画街jing3的画家。	He is a painter of street scenes.
大选	决定da4xuan3的日期是首相的特权。	It's the Prime Minister's prerogative to decide when to call an election.
参赛	能被选拔出来代表国家can1sai4, 是多数运动员的最高荣誉.	To be chosen to represent their country is the highest accolade for most athletes.
看透	能kan4tou4黑暗的锐利眼睛	Keen eyes that penetrate the darkness.
福州	福建中国东南部的一个省份，濒临东海和台湾海峡。经济以农业和渔业为主，省会为Fu2zhou1。人口27，130，000	A province of southeast China on the East China Sea and the Formosa Strait. Agriculture and fishing are important to its economy. Fuzhou is the capital. Population, 27,130,000.
碰巧	peng4qiao3在附近有个公用电话亭。	It happened that there was a telephone booth nearby.
手脚	他们摊开shou3jiao3烤火。	They were sprawled out in front of the fire.
羞辱	必须向人借钱使他感到xiu1ru3。	It galled him to have to ask for a loan.
突击	市民们进行tu1ji1，试图冲破包围。	The citizens sallied out in an attempt to break the siege.
友善	和睦，友好，you3shan4国家间友好和平的关系；友谊	Peaceful relations, as between nations; friendship.
落地	村庄零零落luo4di4散布在山脚下。	Small villages scatter at the foot of the mountain.
巨人	食人妖魔传说或神说中食人的ju4ren2或妖怪	A giant or monster in legends and fairy tales that eats human beings.
临近	lin2jin4死亡的；快要死的	Approaching death; about to die.
闪闪	周围一堆堆的石灰石，在彩虹一样的斑斓色彩中shan3shan3发光。	Round about, piles of lime- stone glistened in all the colours of the rainbow.
柏林	去Bo2lin2的英航125航班旅客请办理登机手续.	Passengers should check in for flight BA 125 to Berlin.
哈佛	＂当他进入Ha1fo2大学学习的志愿实现时，他高兴极了。＂	When his wish to go to Harvard was realized, his joy knew no measure.""
分数	讲话是fen1shu4；沉默是整数。	Speech is fractional; silence is integral.
西方	手绣的丝制手帕在xi1fang1市场销路很好。	Silk handkerchiefs embroidered by hand sell well in the Western market.
仇恨	他的话激起了我的chou2hen4。	His words stirred up my hatred.
雨天	这里一连好几天都是yu3tian1。	There are a succession of rainy days here.
瓜	你要吃点gua1吗?	Would you like some melon?
阻挡	没有人能够zu3dang3历史的车轮。	No one can hold back the wheel of history.
一塌糊涂	牛奶洒在地毯上弄得yi1ta1hu2tu2.	The spilt milk made a terrible mess on the carpet.
选出	学生需要有人指导他们来应付为他们所开设的一大堆课程，从中xuan3chu1最适合他们的课程。	Students need someone to steer them through the mass of courses offered to them, to choose the best ones for their needs.
抑郁	她那yi4yu4的心情一会儿就过去了。	Her feeling of depression was transient.
闭上	她睁开[bi4shang5]眼睛.	She opened/closed her eyes.
房租	不要逾期不缴fang2zu1, 否则会被逐出.	Don't fall behind with the rent, or you'll be evicted.
心头	无数想法划过她的xin1tou2。	A myriad of thoughts passed through her mind.
安妮	杰克和An1ni1订婚了。	Jack and Anne are engaged.
食堂	今天shi2tang2比往常忙得多.	The canteen is more than usually busy today.
当做	他把驾驶员dang4zuo4人质。	He kept the pilot as a hostage.
服饰	花花公子在fu2shi4和举止方面极其文雅的人；纨绔子弟	A man who affects extreme elegance in clothes and manners; a fop.
认得	我ren4de5她，但想不起她的名字了。	I know her face but I can't call her name to mind.
钓鱼	渡假者租了一艘船去diao4yu2。	The holiday-makers chartered a boat to go fishing.
路人	有一男子遭人毒打, lu4ren2只在一旁观看.	Passers-by just looked on as a man was viciously attacked.
花费	为赶时髦她hua1fei5了不少钱。	She spend a lot of money to follow the fashion.
星期四	我们每个xing1qi1si4下午开会。	We have meetings every Thursday afternoon.
室内	shi4nei4一片漆黑.	The room was in complete darkness.
同盟	那个足球队是我们的tong2meng2者。	That football team is our ally.
泡菜	他晚饭吃了一些什锦pao4cai4和米饭。	He had some mixed pickles and rice for supper.
争执	我们跟服务员zheng1zhi2那顿饭的价钱.	We argued with the waiter about the price of the meal.
小声	第二天早上我与妻子离别之时，我已经走出门外几步，她叫我回来，xiao3sheng1地对我说要多加小心。	My wife, however, next morning, at parting, after I had gone some paces from the door, called me back, to advise me, in a whisper, to have all my eyes about me.
胜过	他sheng4guo4他班中的同学。	He got the better of his classmates.
毒气	经过特别警告巴格达不得在伊拉克任何地方使用du2qi4和作战飞机（这些警告鼓励了少数民族叛变）以后，当伊拉克继续用作战直升机对付叛军时，布什却半途而废未加制止。	After having pointedly warned Baghdad not to use poison gas or combat aircraft anywhere in Iraq, warnings that had encouraged the rebellion, Mr.Bush pulled up short when Iraq continued to fly combat helicopters against the insurgents.
少数	只有shao3shu4人在这个岛上居住。	Only a few people inhabited the island.
抗拒	桌上那包糖果对那孩子是个难以kang4ju4的诱惑.	The bag of sweets on the table was too strong a temptation for the child to resist.
成日	可兑换cheng2ri4元的美金	Dollars convertible into yen.
拉开	比赛中的马临近终点时la1kai1了距离。	The horse is stringing out towards the end of the race.
火热	我一整天围着huo3re4的炉子辛辛苦苦地做出这顿饭，可是他们现在几乎一点儿也没有吃。	I slaved away all day over a hot stove to produce this meal, and now they've hardly eaten any of it.
暖气	我汽车里的nuan3qi4设备出了点毛病。	The heater in my car doesn't work properly.
儿时	er2shi2，上天向我们撒谎；往后，我们又朝天撒谎。	Heaven lie about us in our infancy-and we lie about heaven later on.
解救	有个富有的赞助人慷慨捐赠来jie3jiu4我们.	A wealthy sponsor came to our rescue with a generous donation.
聚集	群众迅速ju4ji2在出事现场.	A crowd soon collected at the scene of the accident.
晚宴	我认为能被邀请参加wan3yan4是很大的荣幸。	I consider it a great honor to be invited to dinner.
守卫	四个士兵shou3wei4灵柩.	Four soldiers stood guard over the coffin.
出入	这件事的两种说法有很大chu1ru4.	There is (a) considerable discrepancy/There were many discrepancies between the two versions of the affair.
盛大	他举办sheng4da4的宴会招待亲友。	He gave a grand party for friends and relations.
国会	总统已经失去了guo2hui4的支持。	The President had lost the support of the congress.
杰作	评论家们认定他的作品为jie2zuo4。	The critics hailed his work as a masterpiece.
之上	我们的友谊是建立在无产阶级国际主义zhi1shang4的。	Our friend ship is built on proletarian, internationalism.
月光	yue4guang1映在平静的海面上。	The moonlight shone on the calm sea.
更换	是否可替我geng1huan4座位？	Could you change my seat, please?
大气	da4qi4球注入压缩空气後, 几秒钟就充足了气.	With a supply of compressed air the large balloon inflated in a matter of seconds.
出租	他们乘chu1zu1马车去旅行。	They make a trip with a hackney.
电视机	dian4shi4ji1设定在10点钟自动打开。	The video is programmed to switch on at ten o'clock.
出庭	诉讼要点，案情摘要包含与案件有关的所有证据、论点的文件，由律师chu1ting2辩论时提出	A document containing all the facts and points of law pertinent to a specific case, filed by an attorney before arguing the case in court.
威尼斯	我们在Wei1ni2si1度假时曾到附近的几个地方观光过.	During our holiday in Venice we went on a few trips/excursions to places near by.
放纵	他性格fang4zong4。	His character is indulgent.
乳房	小牛摸索着妈妈的ru3fang2找奶吃。	The calf fumbled for its mother's udder for milk.
智者	zhi4zhe3并非每一件事都懂。	A wise man doesn't know everything.
苏联	美国和前Su1lian2都是条约的签署国.	The US and the former Soviet Union were co-signatories of/to the treaty.
追查	警方用了几天时间zhui1cha2到案中目标。	It took the police several days to track down their quarry.
盛典	我们全都被邀请参加这次sheng4dian3。	We are all invited to take part in the pageant.
往后	她一见到蛇就wang3hou4缩。	She recoiled at the sight of the snake.
录像带	好看的lu4xiang4dai4总是被借走。	The good video is always rented out.
一心	这孩子yi1xin1想要这样东西。	The child has set his heart on it.
无疑	她的死wu2yi2和政治有关。	No doubt her death is related to politics.
骨折	他多处受伤，其中三处gu3zhe2。	He had several injuries, including three fractures.
裹	那些战士都guo3着绑腿。	Those soldiers all wear leggings.
沉浸	他chen2jin4在巨大的欢乐之中。	He is in immeasurable joy.
现货	眼下一点xian4huo4都没有。	No stock is available at present.
细腻	他是个感情xi4ni4的男子。	He is a man of subtle and refined sensibility.
核桃	腰果和he2tao5都是坚果。	Cashew nuts and walnuts are both nuts.
王国	女王英明地统治着她的wang2guo2。	The queen ruled her kingdom wisely.
施工	该房子／公路正在shi1gong1中。	The house/highway is in course of construction.
逝去	这个贫穷的母亲怅惘地回忆她已经shi4qu4的青春。	The poor mother has wistful reminiscences of her lost youth.
惯	他是流浪汉，guan4於风餐雨卧。	He's a tramp and used to living rough.
恐慌	辐射泄露的消息引起了公众的普遍kong3huang1。	The news of the radiation leak caused widespread public alarm.
道具	在连续的场景中使用同样的dao4ju4以确保前後衔接.	Continuity is ensured by using the same props in successive scenes.
图像	放大率tu2xiang4的尺寸和实物尺寸之间的比率	The ratio of the size of an image to the size of an object.
宅	那不是深zhai2大院, 只不过是个小农舍.	It's not a very grand house, just a little cottage.
巴斯	我们的供应厂商已迁往ba1 si1.	Our suppliers have removed to Bath.
除掉	chu2diao4金星以外其他的星星全都消失了。	All but the morning star have disappeared.
点名	他在会上不dian3ming2地批评你。	He talked at you at the meeting.
售价	这些圆珠笔零shou4jia4为70便士.	These biros retail at/for 70p.
尊	上个月在这儿挖出了一zun1古希腊雕像	An old Greek statue was dug up here last month.
旧金山	Jiu4jin1shan1地震是世纪性的灾难之一。	The San Francisco earthquake was one of the worst catastrophes of the century.
纪念日	她责怪丈夫忘了他们的结婚周年ji4nian4ri4。	She reproached her husband for having forgotten their wedding anniversary.
设法	他们应该she4fa3阻止价钱上涨。	They should try to keep prices from rising.
前来	我不相信他会如约qian2lai2访问。	I don't trust his promise to come for a visit.
挡住	修了一道堤坝dang3zhu4洪水.	A dyke was built to retain the floods.
滑稽	她那hua2ji5的服装引得客人哄堂大笑。	Her funny costume caused much mirthful laughter among the guests.
诗人	shi1ren2写这首诗时一定非常年轻。	The poet must have been very young when he wrote this poem.
曲线	标枪在空中沿qu1xian4运动.	The spear curved through the air.
环球	大卫的家离huan2qiu2剧院很近。	David's house is quite close to the Global Theater.
菠萝	用一把这么钝的刀子切bo1luo2是不可能的。	It's impossible to cut a pineapple with such a dull knife.
华人	有许多中国人住在唐人街，其人数比中国本土之外世界其他任何地方的hua2ren2都多。	More Chinese live in China Town than in any other part of the world outside China.
长发	她的chang2fa4披在後背直垂到腰间.	Her hair hung down her back to her waist.
搬走	我的房东让我月底ban1zou3.	My landlord is turning me out at the end of the month.
闻到	你能wen2dao4煤气漏气吗？	Can you smell a gas leak?
希特勒	犹太人在Xi1te4le4的统治下受到残酷的迫害。	The Jews suffered terrible persecution under Hitler's rule.
身影	一个模糊的shen1ying3从黑暗中闪过。	A shadowy figure went past in the darkness.
电力	dian4li4供应已在电源处截断.	The electricity supply has been cut off/disconnected at the mains.
猜想	我不是cai1xiang3--我知道!	I'm not guessing I know!
颓废	20世纪初，许多保守主义者认为印象派的艺术是tui2fei4的。	Many conservatives in the early 1900's thought impressionistic art was decadent.
扭	niu3曲，变形，niu3歪使niu3歪的行为或例子	The act or an instance of distorting.
君主	年轻女子被举荐入宫（觐见jun1zhu3）的风俗已不复存在.	The custom of young ladies being presented at court (ie formally introduced to the monarch) has disappeared.
没收	该杂志被归类成淫秽出版物，已被海关mo4shou1。	The magazine is classed as an obscene publication and seized by the customs.
点燃	他dian3ran2了雪茄。	He lit up a cigar.
用不着	你yong4bu5zhao2让自己这么不安的。	There's no need to upset yourself.
夜空	你可以看到ye4kong1中的星群。	You can see stars in clusters in the night sky.
有助于	农产品价格的提高you3zhu4yu2农业。	High prices for farm products encouraged farming.
效应	经理还没有想出一个适当的举措来减少多米诺xiao4ying4。	The manager hasn't worked out a suitable action to reduce the domino effect.
贤	【谚】夫善则妻xian2。	A good husband makes a good wife.
钟头	她离开一个多zhong1tou2了.	She left little more than an hour ago.
菊花	它是一种有ju2hua1味的特别茶叶。	It was a special tea which tasted of chrysanthemum.
装满	瓶子里zhuang1man3了水。	The bottle is full of water.
增	zeng1税引起了一片怨声。	There was uproar over the tax increase.
亲亲	那孩子见他妈妈当着同学们的面qin1qin5热热、婆婆妈妈的对待他，感到害臊，不知如何是好。	The child was ashamed of the affectionate fuss his mother was making of him in front of his schoolmates and didn't know where to turn his eyes.
笑声	他们爆发出一阵xiao4sheng1。	They burst into a spasm of laughter.
数据库	shu4ju4ku4中包含有某个实体信息的字段。	In database, a field that contain information about an entity.
着呢	没问题，""有人答道，""快点，宇宙飞船正等zhe5ne5。""	That's all right, "" someone said. ""Quickly, the spaceship is waiting.""
押	被告还ya1候审一星期.	The accused was remanded in custody for a week.
瞌睡	这位老人在沙发上打起ke1shui4来。	The old man is dropping away in the sofa.
马戏团	真不凑巧，当ma3xi4tuan2来到我们镇上时戴维得了麻疹。	It was too bad David had measles when the circus came to our town.
乌龟	他给我买了两只小wu1gui1。	He bought two small tortoises for me.
强求	紧迫的qiang3qiu2立即的行动和关注的；急迫的	Compelling immediate action or attention; pressing.
拐	道路有个急转弯guai3向右边。	The road curved sharply to the right.
绒	粗厚起rong2呢料用低档羊毛布料制成的，两侧有rong2毛的制毯织物	A blanket fabric made of low-grade woolen cloth with a nap on both sides.
查询	哦！对了！我为什么不到学校的就业咨询处去cha2xun2一下呢。	Oh, well why do not I check out the campus employment office?
老友	我遇到了一位境遇变化了的lao3you3。	I came across an old friend in changed circumstances.
陪同	首相在其助手pei2tong2下访问我国。	The Prime Minister came to visit our country in the company of his assistant.
举起	他们ju3qi3拳头向领袖致敬.	They raised their fists in salute to their leader.
专用	这个房间是供妇女zhuan1yong4的。	This room is exclusively for women.
左手	他一记有力的zuo3shou3拳将对手击倒.	He knocked down his opponent with a powerful left.
法则	除技术fa3ze2和实践艺术外的所有知识	All learning except technical precepts and practical arts.
村子	我们cun1zi5有很多贫困家庭。	There are many needy families in our village.
委托人	我得同wei3tuo1ren2商量後才能接受你的建议.	I must consult my prinicipals before agreeing to your proposal.
安定	局势an1ding4了下来。	The situation has settled down.
打卡	查尔斯的新工作要求不能提早下班，他下班必须da3ka3。	Charles can't leave early in his new job;he has to ring out.
为主	欧申赛德美国纽约东南部一个还未合并的位于长岛南岸的社区。欧寻赛德是一个以住宅及休养wei2zhu3的城镇。人口32，423	An unincorporated community of southeast New York on the southern shore of Long Island. Oceanside is a residential and resort town. Population, 32,423.
宗	这zong1事故是人为过失造成的。	The accident was caused by human error.
学业	老师帮助他上完了中学，但他无法完成大学的xue2ye4。	The teacher helped him through high school, but he couldn't cut the buck in college.
透过	阳光tou4guo4窗帘映了进来。	The sunlight filtered through the curtains.
领导人	该ling3dao3ren2受到了首相的接见.	The chief was received by the Prime Minister.
空军	该kong1jun1中队执行一侦察任务.	The squadron flew a reconnaissance mission.
房价	fang2jia4稳定了几个月, 现在又上涨了.	House prices, which have been static for several months, are now rising again.
说了算	威尔逊先生怕老婆；在他家里，他太太shuo1le5suan4。	Mr Wilson is henpecked by his wife; she wears the pants in that family.
物价	眼下wu4jia4高得上了天.	Prices are sky-high at the moment.
渡过	他划船du4guo4湖面。	He rowed the boat across the lake.
臀部	脂肪团一种能引起如大腿、tun2bu4等处的皱纹或凹凸不平的脂肪沉淀物	A fatty deposit causing a dimpled or uneven appearance, as around the thighs and buttocks.
崩	绳子拉紧后beng1断了。	The rope severed under the strain.
评审	在对他进行ping2shen3时，你应该考虑到他还年轻。	In judging him you should consider his youth.
急于	她ji2yu2要告诉你这消息。	She is burning to tell you the news.
喧嚣	他叫我一、两天内别回来，等xuan1xiao1和动乱平息下来再说。	He asked me not to come back for a day or two until the noise and commotion had settled down.
歌舞	他们正准备上演新的ge1wu3喜剧。	They are preparing for the presentation of a new musical.
勤	通过qin2查字典，他掌握了这些单词。	He mastered these words through the arduous consultation of the dictionary.
五月	wu3yue4里各种植物鲜花盛开。	In May, all kinds of plants are in full bloom.
肝脏	这种药使用过量会损害gan1zang4.	Excessive dosage of this drug can result in injury to the liver.
无线电	他用wu2xian4dian4报把消息告诉我。	He sent me the news by wireless telegraph.
如下	参议院决议ru2xia4...	The senate resolved that...
扭曲	扭转，niu3qu1扭动的动作或实例；压挤或niu3qu1	The act or an instance of wringing; a squeeze or twist.
出自	我对艺术一窍不通，我没见过什么大人物，我也不进好裁缝铺，这些全与我无缘。我不是chu1zi4他所认为的社会上层。	I don't know anything about art, and I haven't met any grand people, and I don't go to a good tailor, and all that, I'm not what he calls out of the top drawer.
供应	商人向他们gong1ying4货物。	The merchant supplies goods to them.
催眠	这些药丸有镇静cui1mian2作用.	These pills will relax you and make you sleep.
西南	这里最常刮的风是xi1nan2风.	The prevailing wind here is from the south-west.
甘心	你能gan1xin1一辈子失业吗?	Could you reconcile yourself to a lifetime of unemployment?
日报	他的文章昨天发表于“中国ri4bao4”上。	His article appeared in China Daily yesterday.
担忧	目前的经济状况令人十分dan1you1。	The state of the economy is very worrying.
曼哈顿	炮台公园man4ha1dun4岛南端的公园，位于纽约东南部的纽约湾北端。1808年为保护港口而建，早期荷兰和英国的防御工事及克林顿城堡就在此地	A park at the southern tip of Manhattan Island at the upper end of New York Bay in southeast New York. It is the site of early Dutch and English fortifications and of Castle Clinton, built in1808 for the defense of the harbor.
不舍	不受以往辩论形式的拘束，副总统奎尔和民主党的戈尔穷追bu4she3互相猛烈攻击。结果双方对抗始终活泼生动，常有战斗意味，有进则风度欠佳。	Freed from the constraints of the traditional debate format, Vice President Quayle and Democrat Al Gore went after each other with a vengeance, creating a confrontation that was always lively, often combative, occasionally mean-spirited.
花朵	hua1duo3下面的萼片枯萎了。	The sepals under the flower wilted.
地铁站	去di4tie3zhan4从这儿走，对吗？	Be this right for the subway station?
设定	练习开始前，你最好she4ding4一个目标。	You'd better set a goal before you start the drill.
步行	我喜欢bu4xing2更甚于骑自行车。	I prefer walking to cycling.
公会	圣gong1hui4教区委员圣gong1hui4教区委员会中推选的两位主要执事之一	One of two elected chief lay officers of the vestry in the Episcopal Church.
名声	他的ming2sheng1将永垂不朽。	His fame will endure forever.
候选人	她已被提名为总统hou4xuan3ren2。	She had been nominated as candidate for the presidency.
进食	放牧地，牧场一片适宜于牲畜游荡和jin4shi2的广大土地	An expanse of land suitable for livestock to wander and graze on.
光线	guang1xian4太暗，我看书有困难。	The light was too dim for me to read easily.
小狗	我曾饲养过一只xiao3gou3。	I once raised a little puppy.
赞同	我不zan4tong2这样的计划.	I would not give/lend countenance to such a plan.
捐款	她juan1kuan3给一个动物保护协会。	She subscribes to an animal protection society.
夏日	不用说，xia4ri4的傍晚是多么美。	Needs not say how lovely are the summer evenings.
鹰	一只ying1在高空盘旋.	An eagle circled high overhead.
人造	这种酸乳酪不含ren2zao4香料或著色剂.	This yoghurt contains no artificial flavouring or colouring.
贫穷	他终生pin2qiong2。	He remained poor all his life.
胡说八道	别hu2shuo1-ba1dao4了。	Don't talk nonsense.
滑动	这种费用是根据收入高低hua2dong4折算的.	Fees are calculated on a sliding scale according to income.
牙医	ya2yi1用汞合金给我补牙.	The dentist used amalgam to fill my teeth.
眼皮	他yan3pi2肿了.	His eyelid is swollen.
住处	这场灾难过後，许多人既没有食物又没有zhu4chu4。	After the disaster there were many who wanted food and shelter.
中年	一位zhong1nian2妇女走进来，后面跟着一群孩子。	A middle- aged woman come over, follow by a group of children.
舞步	他在舞池里跺著wu3bu4, 样子很可笑.	He looked funny stomping round the dance floor.
怀旧	她的作品充满了huai2jiu4之情。	Her work is pervaded by nostalgia for a past age.
例子	这不过是许多li4zi5中的一个。	This is only one instance out of many.
怀里	她把孩子紧紧抱在huai2 li3。	She clasped the baby to her bosom.
毫不	他hao2bu4隐讳自己极左的观点.	He made no bones about his extreme left-wing views.
联	你从大海能lian2想到什么?	What associations does the sea have for you?
别处	我们喜欢的饭馆已客满, 所以我们只得到bie2chu4去.	Our favourite restaurant was full, so we had to go elsewhere.
画报	hua4bao4的封面上印上美女不过是吸引顾客的一种生意眼。	The pretty girl on the cover of the pictorial is just a sales gimmick.
蛋白	角dan4bai2一种不溶解的较硬的dan4bai2物质，是头发、指甲、角和蹄的主要结构成分	A tough, insoluble protein substance that is the chief structural constituent of hair, nails, horns, and hoofs.
叛徒	所谓的pan4tu2均已（从队伍中）清洗出去.	So-called traitors were purged (from their ranks).
某某	咱们打个比方吧, 有个mou3mou3先生来旅馆登记.	Let's suppose a Mr So-and-so registers at the hotel.
业	航运ye4何去何从?	Whither (ie What is the likely future of) the shipping industry?
外壳	有些水果和种子有wai4ke2。	Some fruits and seeds have hulls.
不知所措	＂一枚手榴弹意外地发生了爆炸，接着是一片混乱，使我bu4 zhi1 suo3 cuo4。＂	A hand grenade exploded by accident and I got lost in the ensuing confusion.
富翁	那位fu4weng1在遗嘱中什么都没给他儿子留下。	The rich man left his son nothing in the will.
鹅	那e2愤怒地向我发出嘶嘶声.	The goose hissed at me angrily.
接收	这里的无线电jie1shou1情况不太好。	Radio reception isn't very good here.
重建	再chong2jian4这座建筑物是不可能的。	Reconstruction of that building is impossible.
手腕	她以巧妙的shou3wan4处理了这个问题。	She dealt with the problem with consummate skill.
张开	花瓣在阳光下zhang1kai1了.	The petals of the flowers expanded in the sunshine.
主妇	她妈妈是一个节俭的zhu3fu4。	Her mother is a thrifty housewife.
烦人	花这麽一点钱也要去请示, 真fan2ren2.	It's annoying to have to get authorization for spending such piddling amounts of money.
演技	电影导演测试了一下那位新演员的yan3ji4。	The film director put the new actor through his paces.
中途	我的车轮子在汽车比赛zhong1tu2脱掉了。	My wheel twisted off in the middle of the car race.
惹麻烦	没有谁愿意re3 ma2fan5。	Nobody likes to get into trouble.
以至于	威尔非常专心读书, yi3zhi4yu2没有吃晚餐。	Will was so absorbed in reading that he went without his dinner.
苍蝇	马厩里到处都是cang1ying5.	The stables swarmed with flies.
独处	品德就是自我在暗地里du2chu3时的样子。	Character is what we are when we are alone with ourselves in the dark.
口香糖	他喜欢嚼kou3xiang1tang2。	He likes chewing gum.
从不	我cong2bu4错过踢足球的机会。	I never miss a chance of playing football.
一阵	yi1zhen4微风吹皱了湖面。	A breeze ruffled the surface of the lake.
得了	他de2le5肝癌。	He's got a cancer in his liver.
病情	他因过早出院而使bing4qing2恶化.	He aggravated his condition by leaving hospital too soon.
四周	该湖si4zhou1柳树环绕。	The lake is ringed with willows.
安全带	幸亏我当时系上了an1quan2dai4。	Thanks to I had tied then the safety belt.
无效	他的所有权是wu2xiao4的.	His claim to ownership is invalid.
微波炉	磁控管一种微波管，它里面的发热阴极发出的电子受到磁场和电场的影响，从而产生能用于雷达和wei1bo1lu2微波辐射	A microwave tube in which electrons generated from a heated cathode are affected by magnetic and electric fields in such a way as to produce microwave radiation used in radar and in microwave ovens.
功课	她的gong1ke4行吗?	Is her schoolwork up to scratch?
房屋	这所fang2wu1已处于荒废的状态。	The house has fallen into a state of neglect.
伦	lun2勃朗的绘画是天才的象徵.	Rembrandt's paintings show the cachet of genius.
朗	伦勃lang3的绘画是天才的象徵.	Rembrandt's paintings show the cachet of genius.
平板	绷紧的薄膜状物挤压得很紧的ping2ban3或薄膜，如鼓面	A tightly stretched sheet or membrane, as on the head of a drum.
柜子	他的书在gui4zi5里找到了。	His book turned up in the cupboard.
流动	粘滞性的对liu2dong4有较高抵抗力的	Having relatively high resistance to flow.
美国人	Mei3guo2ren2是各种种族人的熔合体。	Americans are the fusion of many different races.
非凡	他在面对危险的时候表现出fei1fan2的勇气。	He showed remarkable courage when he faced the danger.
代码	产生某种指定类型和格式的结果的程序或另一种编码序列（如“宏生成程序”、“微dai4ma3生成程序”）。	A program or other coding sequence that produces a result of specified type and format(""a macro generator"";""a microcode generator"").
捐赠	请为饥荒账款慷慨juan1zeng4。	Please give generously to famine relief.
白菜	bai2cai4一星期内就发芽了.	The cabbages germinated within a week.
毒药	这些箭的箭头上都蘸上了du2yao4。	The arrows had been tipped with poison.
指引	在困难的时候，她祈祷神谕来zhi3yin3她。	In times of difficulty, she pray for an oracle to guide her
占有	他在英国文学中zhan4you3独特的地位。	He occupies a unique place in English literature.
汗水	她用一张面巾纸擦掉脸上的han4shui3。	She wiped off the sweat from her face with a piece of facial tissue.
写下	在这张粉红色纸条上xie3xia4你的姓名和地址。	Write your name and address on this pink slip.
凌乱	书本ling2luan4地散置在地上.	The books were scattered pell-mell over the floor.
枪杀	对于他们qiang1sha1无辜平民，人们感到义愤填膺。	People are indignant by their shooting of innocent civilians.
主演	这位导演想让迈克尔·凯恩zhu3yan3他的新片子.	The director wanted to star Michael Caine in his new film.
呐喊	万岁日本人在进攻时的na4han3或爱国的欢呼；	A Japanese battle cry or patriotic cheer.
特权	英国的政治以往是有产阶级的te4quan2.	Politics in Britain used to be the perquisite of the property-owning classes.
勾	边上打了一个漂亮的红gou1。	There was a nice red tick in the margin.
好比	我们的工作hao3bi3一场战斗。	Our work can be compared to a battle.
行驶	她开车xing2shi3了大约十英里.	She drove for about ten miles.
正直	一个zheng4zhi2的法官不能一味顺从舆论。	An honest judge cannot be servile to public opinion.
超出	它已经chao1chu1法院的权限。	It has beyond the competence of the court.
比起	我原以为自己画得不错, 可bi3qi3你的画儿来未免相形见绌.	I thought I was quite a good artist, but your painting puts mine in the shade.
蜜月	在我们忍不住叹气并开始忍住呵欠之前，mi4yue4是还未度过的哪。	The honeymoon was not until we ceased to stifle our sigh and began to stifle our yawn.
狂热	他kuang2re4地爱好书籍。	He is mad about books.
食欲	走了长路使我shi2yu4大振.	The long walk has given me a good appetite.
老太太	她是个古怪的lao3 tai4tai5。	She is an eccentric old lady.
已婚	我警告过你不要同yi3hun1女子胡来，那样总是会惹麻烦的。	I have warned you not to meddle with married women, it always leads to trouble.
可卡因	使醉的喝醉了的，被麻醉品例如ke3ka3yin1或大麻麻醉了的	Intoxicated by or as if by alcohol or a drug, such as cocaine or marijuana.
随地	sui2di4吐痰是不允许的。	It's not allowed to spit everywhere.
意愿	他们表示有签订合同的yi4yuan4。	They showed a disposition to sign the contract.
必定	生产成本的增加bi4ding4使价格上涨。	Any increase in production costs is bound to send up prices.
重温	英国人在任何动乱的年代都要chong2wen1战争时期的日子，那时人们都友好互助。	In any troubled times, the British tend to hark back to wartime days, when people helped each other in a friendly spirit.
接通	自来水jie1tong1了吗?	Is the water on?
熟人	她得到了一份新工作，这个月又连加三级工资。她在上头一定有shu2ren2。	She has had a new job and three increases in her wages this month. She must have friends in high places.
拿起	他们na2qi3武器保卫祖国。	They took up arms in defence of their country.
做错	老师狠狠地瞪了我一眼，所以我怀疑我zuo4cuo4了什么事。	The teacher threw a fierce look at me, so I wondered what I had done wrong.
去掉	她很高兴qu4diao4了这个包袱。	She was glad to be relieved of this burden.
加热	把黄油jia1re4，直到变成褐色为止。	Heat the butter until it browns.
额头	他摔倒时, e2tou2磕著了（墙）.	He hit his forehead (against the wall) as he fell.
碉堡	好，这是我们夺取敌人diao1bao3的好机会，千万不能错过。	Now this is our big chance to take the enemy pillbox and we can't afford to miss out.
本性	他的ben3xing4与弄虚作假格格不入.	Dishonesty is foreign to his nature.
窃听	有人在qie4ting1我的电话。	My phone is being tapped.
知情	他对这个事件毫不zhi1qing2，真让人感到诧异。	It was amazing that he knew nothing about the event.
一齐	不要大家yi1qi2说!	Don't all speak at once!
过错	我伤害了你的感情，该怎样来弥补我的guo4cuo4呢？	How can I atone for hurting your feelings?
插手	麦克cha1shou3阻止两个小伙子打架，结果他俩都迁怒于他。	Mike stepped in to stop a fight between two lads and they both turned on him.
好些	在火灾中，hao3xie1房子给烧毁了。	A number of houses were burnt down in the fire.
双手	你shuang1shou3手指的总数是10。	The number of your finger is ten.
无能	殉教行为，是无德wu2neng2者可以一举成名的惟一途径。	Martyrdom is the only way in which a man can become famous without ability.
新生	我感觉像是个xin1sheng1的婴儿。	I feel like a newborn baby.
打倒	他一拳就把对手da3dao3在地。	He laid his opponent low with a single punch.
洋溢	用餐时yang2yi4著热情友好的气氛。	The atmosphere over dinner was warm and friendly.
乌鸦	wu1ya1是不祥的预兆。	The crow is a bird of ill omen.
麻雀	ma2que4啄食著面包屑.	Sparrows picked at the crumbs.
酒鬼	jiu3gui3好比威士忌瓶，全是脖子跟肚子而没脑子。	A drunkard is like a whisky bottle, all neck and belly and no head.
蒜	这菜里要再加点儿suan4.	This dish needs a touch more garlic.
调情	秘密的tiao2qing2动作tiao2qing2动作，其中一方在桌下偷偷地用脚或腿磨擦对方的腿或脚	The act of flirting in which one secretly touches the feet or legs of another with one's own, as under a table.
线条	xian4tiao2和色彩在肖像绘画中都很重要.	Line and colour are both important in portrait painting.
河南	这件事发生在He2nan2一个偏僻的农村。	The thing happened in an out-of-the-way village in Henan.
舌	候选人在辩论中唇枪she2箭。	The candidates exchanged shafts in the debate.
保释	地方法官准许[不准]他bao3shi4.	The magistrate granted/refused him bail.
不是	他也bu4shi5技术员。	He's not a technician, either.
大自然	人类与da4zi4ran2进行不懈的斗争.	Man is engaged in a constant struggle with Nature.
急救	上星期我儿子被考核了ji2jiu4方面的知识，现在他已获得六枚童子军奖章。	My son was examined in First Aid last week. He's got about six Scout badges now.
纸巾	请递给我一张zhi3jin1。	Please pass me a piece of paper handkerchief.
影院	吵闹的年青人都已从ying3yuan4被逐出去了。	The noisy youths were ejected from the cinema.
琼斯	代我向Qiong2si1夫妇及其子女问好.	Give my regards to Mr and Mrs Jones and family.
人际	ren2ji4网由具有共同兴趣或爱好的人组成的非正式体系。人们互相帮助、互相交换信息或工作联系的进展	An informal system whereby persons having common interests or concerns assist each other, as in the exchange of information or the development of professional contacts.
这样子	我希望你最近转变成的zhe4yang4zi5永远不要再变。	I hope you'll never change back from the person you have recently become.
夏季	xia4ji4昼长。	In summer the days are long.
甩掉	他最后总算把那几个特务shuai3diao4了。	The spies were finally thrown off his track.
奖学金	我们每年给三个研究生的jiang3 xue2 jin1.	We give three research fellowships a year.
皮毛	她梳去狗的pi2mao2中的泥土。	She combed the mud out of the dog's fur.
身子	游泳后，她用毛巾擦干shen1zi5。	After her swim she dried herself with a towel.
八十	奖学金包括ba1shi2美元的书籍费津贴。	The scholarship includes an allowance of 80 dollars for books.
火腿	这个地区传统的早饭包括huo3tui3和鸡蛋。	The traditional breakfast in this area includes bacon and eggs.
选票	自由党候选人轻易获胜，超出xuan3piao4数以千计。	The liberal candidate romped through with thousands of votes to spare.
同伙	小偷被逮住了，但他的tong2huo3却逃之夭夭。	The thief was arrested, but his confederate escaped.
发脾气	她经常大fa1 pi2qi5.	She regularly throws tantrums.
垮	她看样子随时都可能kua3下来.	She looked ready to collapse at any minute.
执法	破墙槌一种非常沉重的金属槌，是救火人员和zhi2fa3官员用来捣破墙和门而用的	A very heavy metal bar used by firefighters and law enforcement officers to break down walls and doors.
过量	酒精中毒由guo4liang4及习惯性饮酒而造成的一种慢性渐进的病理状况，主要影响神经及消化系统	A chronic, progressive pathological condition, mainly affecting the nervous and digestive systems, caused by the excessive and habitual consumption of alcohol.
新加坡	吉隆坡马来西亚的首都和最大城市，位于马来半岛的西南部、Xin1jia1po1西北。于1857年由锡矿工人建立，现为该国的商业和工业中心。人口937，817	The capital and largest city of Malaysia, on the southwest Malay Peninsula northwest of Singapore. Founded by tin miners in1857, it is the commercial and industrial hub of the country. Population, 937,817.
不至于	她bu4zhi4yu2愚蠢到干出那样的事来。	She is not so foolish as to do that.
屠杀	妇女和儿童遭到叛乱者的tu2sha1.	Women and children were butchered by the rebels.
单子	这两张dan1zi5不相符。	The two lists do not tally.
孤	那只gu1狸逃进了灌木丛。	The fox betook herself to the thicket.
消费者	要鼓励xiao1fei4zhe3对劣质商品投诉.	Consumers are encouraged to complain about faulty goods.
眉	画mei2是一种小鸣禽。	The thrush is a kind of small singing bird.
明知	他在ming2zhi1他的性命有可能受到威胁的情况下接任了那职位。	He took over the post in the knowledge that it might endanger his life.
炸药	zha4yao4是爆炸物.	Dynamite is an explosive.
廉价	他们决定把小单元lian2jia4出租.	They decided to let (off) the smaller flats at lower rents.
琴	每周六qin2在村里的公用草地上骑马。	Every Saturday Jean went riding on the village common.
突然间	这些新来者准备承担一部分我们tu1ran2jian1感到很沉重的那些负担吗？	Are the newcomers prepared to shoulder some of the burdens which we have suddenly discovered to be oppressive?
细心	对这东西要特别xi4xin1.	Take special care of it.
意想不到	战胜癌症的征途是漫长的，而且布满yi4xiang3 bu5 dao4的困难。	The road to the conquest of cancer is long and full of pitfall.
谎话	他凭直觉认为她说的是huang3hua4。	He had a hunch that she was lying.
衬衣	她的chen4yi1已破旧。	His shirt was in tatters.
盏	桌子上有一zhan3煤油灯。	There was a kerosene lamp on the table.
市中心	这个花园离shi4zhong1xin1只有五分钟的路程。	The park is only five minutes from downtown.
假发	她乔装打扮戴著金色jia3fa4和墨镜.	She disguised herself with a blonde wig and dark glasses.
脚踝	他踢那个男孩的jiao3huai2骨作为报复。	He retaliated on the boy by kicking on his ankle.
转换	变频器将无线电讯号从一种频率zhuan3huan4成另一种频率的电子装置	An electronic device that converts one frequency of a radio signal to another.
菠菜	bo1cai4豆腐是我最爱吃的一种菜。	Spinach with bean curd is one of my favourite dishes.
裂缝	桌子上的lie4feng4越变越宽。	The cranny in the table became more and more wide.
教学	她的jiao4xue2工作受到高度赞扬.	Her teaching was highly commended.
过时	一个guo4shi2的火车机车	An obsolete locomotive.
海绵	她用hai3mian2把地板 使劲儿擦了一遍.	She gave the floor a vigorous sponge all over.
坎坷	想起自己kan3ke3的一生，他不由仰天长叹。	He could not but look up to the sky and sigh deeply when his lifetime of frustrations passed through his mind.
干部	你们认为他是个好gan4bu4吗？	Do you think him a good cadre?
缩小	由于洗后suo1xiao3，那件衬衫现在小得不能穿了。	As a result of shrinkage, the shirt is now too small to wear.
领地	你熟悉关于侵入私人ling3di4的法律吗？	Are you familiar with the laws relating to trespass?
橙子	cheng2zi5含有丰富的维生素C.	Oranges are rich in vitamin C.
戳	移民官员在我的护照上盖了chuo1。	The immigration officer stamped my passport.
路程	车站到我家只有几步路的lu4cheng2。	The station is a short walk from my house
钢	块gang1用作碾平的一段gang1材	A bar of steel prepared for rolling.
通行证	我用这张tong1xing2zheng4坐火车半价.	This pass enables me to travel half-price on trains.
仆人	pu2ren2唱名通报史密斯先生来访。	The servant announced Mr. Smith.
宿	我在一友人处寄膳su4。	I'm boarding with a friend.
刻薄	ke4bo2的；尖锐的；锐利的	Tart; sharp; cutting.
南部	我们将迁往纽卡斯尔nan2bu4.	We're relocating just south of Newcastle.
毛孔	汗从mao2kong3中渗出.	Sweat exudes through the pores.
苦恼	她对那笔开支相当ku3nao3.	She was not a little (ie very) worried about the expense.
碟	你敢逃避洗碗die2!	Don't you dare try and get out of the washing-up!
脚趾	我的靴子挤压了我jiao3zhi3上的水泡。	My boot is pressing against a blister on my toe.
遗嘱	yi2zhu3检验文件副本经这样检验过的yi2zhu3的已鉴定过的副本	An authenticated copy of a will so certified.
衣柜	衣橱用来储藏衣服的一种柜子；yi1gui4	A chamber for storing clothes; a wardrobe.
反击	士兵们养精畜锐，节约粮草，以期fan3ji1敌人的进攻。	The soldiers husband their strength and their food, waiting for the enemy to attack.
龙虾	long2xia1有八条腿两条爪子。	Lobster has eight legs and two long claws.
读者	图书馆每周五对du2zhe3开放。	The library is open to readers on every Friday.
未婚夫	姑娘又活泼又富幽默感, wei4hun1fu1家人十分喜欢她.	The girl impressed her fiance's family with her liveliness and sense of humour.
共同点	这两个敌对的党派之间没有gong4tong2dian3.	The two rival parties have no common ground between them.
不已	成群结队的犯罪分子整夜横行霸道，令村民们惊恐bu4yi3。	Groups of law-breakers have been rampaging about all night, putting fear into the villagers.
跪下	她在惶恐中gui4xia5。	She dropped to her knees in a panic.
通信	我决不就这一问题与他tong1xin4.	I refused to enter into any correspondence (ie exchange letters) with him about it.
走过	他推着手推车沿路zou3guo4。	He trundled a wheelbarrow down the path.
得出	她正想de2chu1神。	She was in a brown study.
嗓音	教师的sang3yin1很高, 孩子们都不禁咯咯地笑起来.	The children couldn't stop giggling at the teacher's high-pitched voice.
大使	我们本星期宴请da4shi3.	We're dining the ambassador this week.
决斗	我向他挑战进行jue2dou4。	I challenge him to a duel.
入学	他已经通过了大学的ru4xue2考试。	He had passed the entrance examination of the college.
疗法	冷liao2fa3一种在医疗中局部或全部使用低温的方法	The local or general use of low temperatures in medical therapy.
办公	我一走近她的ban4gong1桌，她就瞪我。	She glares at me if I go near her desk.
看懂	这一章我看到一半才意识到我根本没kan4dong3。	Half-way through the chapter I realized I hadn't taken anything in.
采	明天我们去cai3浆果。	Tomorrow we'll go to pick berries.
开动	火车缓缓地kai1dong4了。	Slowly the train began to move.
美貌	她的mei3mao4倾倒了很多男青年。	Her beauty enslaved many young men.
宽松	那件大衣很合身、 不合身、 很瘦、 很kuan1song1等.	The coat was a good, bad, tight, loose, etc fit.
董事会	总经理由dong3shi4hui4任命。	The president is appointed by the board of directors.
推进	他急急忙忙地把孩子们tui1jin4汽车。	He huddled the children into the automobile.
抽空	我刚煮好咖啡--你能chou1kong4儿喝点儿吗?	I've just made some coffee have you time for a quickie?
阴天	在樱花完全绽放的时候，经常容易遇到yin1tian1或多风天。	It is apt to get either cloudy or windy when the cherry blossom are in full bloom.
小型	鹦鹉螺是种xiao3xing2海洋动物。	Nautilus is a small sea animal.
怜悯	他的眼泪引起在场人的lian2min3。	His tears were pathetic to witness.
眼看	生活费用持续下降, yan3kan4就快三个月了.	The cost of living seems set to drop for the third month in succession.
枕	床头上有一个长zhen3垫。	There is a bolster across the head of the bed.
领养	由于这对已婚夫妇无法生育，他们ling3yang3了一个私生子。	As the married couple can't have children, they have adopted a child born out of wedlock.
药品	是她最先使用的这种yao4pin3。	She pioneered the use of the drug.
昨夜	zuo2ye4我梦见我在飞翔.	I dreamt about flying last night.
学费	他们上学你要付xue2fei4吗？	Do you have to pay for their schooling?
罗伯特	埃米特，Luo2bo2te41778－1803爱尔兰爱国主义者，他为爱尔兰天主教的权利而战，在反对英国的事件中，因失败而被处决	Irish patriot who fought for the rights of Irish Catholics and was executed for his part in a bungled uprising against the British.
各种各样	桌子上摆着ge4zhong3-ge4yang4的物体。	Various objects were on the table.
手铐	那个犯人被shou3kao4铐着。	The prisoner was fastened by a shackle.
鸡尾酒	ji1wei3jiu3杯；ji1wei3jiu3会	A cocktail glass; a cocktail party.
遵命	再来一杯吗？""""zun1ming4，彼此干一杯，""伍长回答说。	Have another glass? """"With you, hob and nob, "" returned the sergeant.
架子	把饼乾放到上面的jia4zi5上.	Put the biscuits on the shelf above.
破碎	飞机撞上了山而po4sui4。	The plane struck on the hill and went to pieces.
燕子	英国来的yan4zi5飞到南非那样远的地方。	Swallows from England go as far as South Africa.
厌烦	听相同的故事是令人yan4fan2的。	It is boring to listen to the same story.
憎恨	感到厌恶的，感到zeng1hen4的	Feeling repugnance or loathing.
得以	这些计划终於de2yi3实施.	The plans were finally put into execution.
常见	忙中有错是很chang2jian4的。	Haste makes waste, as is often the case.
反弹	球打在墙上又fan3tan2回来。	The ball hit the wall and bounced off it.
融合	附着的与同类的部分或组织粘着但不rong2he2的	Sticking to but not fused with a part or an organ of the same kind.
出动	chu1dong4了警察将集会驱散.	Police were called in to break up the meeting.
卡住	那把刀子被ka3zhu4了，她猛地一拔，把它拔了出来。	The knife was stuck but she pulled it out with a jerk.
型号	他把旧汽车折价添钱买了辆新xing2hao4的。	He traded in his car for a new model.
管理员	这座公寓的guan3li3yuan2不在公寓里住.	This block of flats has a non-resident caretaker.
卢	lu2·格里克打一垒	Lou Gehrig played first base.
真情	他不敢把令人不快的zhen1qing2告诉他们。他是条哑吧狗。	He is afraid to tell them the unpalatable truths. He is a dumb dog.
业绩	首次飞跃大西洋是一项了不起的ye4ji4。	Flying across the Atlantic for the first time was a great achievement.
微微	一盏小灯笼在黑暗中wei1wei1闪光。	A little lantern blinked in the darkness.
体育馆	篮球运动员们正在ti3yu4guan3进行训练。	The basketball players are working out at the gym.
想象力	我女儿是一个xiang3xiang4li4活跃的孩子。	My daughter is a child with vivid imagination.
诚意	他真心cheng2yi4地愿意帮助我们。	He has a genuine desire to help us.
刀子	他用一把dao1zi5将苹果切开。	He cleaved an apple with a knife.
恶意	他纯粹出於e4yi4抨击政府.	His attack on the government was pure vitriol.
豆子	在黎巴嫩的雪松下吃枣子跟在贝肯街吃炒糊了的dou4zi5一样，都是那么令人乏味。	The bore is the same eating dates under the cedars of Lebanon as over baked beans in Beacon Street.
好感	他尽其所能去赢得他的hao3gan3。	He did all he could to win his favor.
颈	大猫叼著小猫的jing3背.	The cat picked up the kitten by the scruff of its neck.
带到	那个嫌疑犯被dai4dao4警察局问话.	The suspect was taken to the police station for questioning.
牢房	囚犯绝望地乱抓lao2fang2的门.	The prisoner clawed at the cell door in desperation.
拍卖	军队正在把大量旧装备pai1mai4掉.	The Army is auctioning off a lot of old equipment.
晕倒	有个年幼的学生在炎炎烈日下yun1dao3了。	A young student fainted in the hot sun.
背心	他的衬衫很薄, 连里面穿的bei4xin1都能看见.	His shirt was so thin that his vest showed through (it).
永不	在这样的高度，雪yong3bu4融化。	In these altitudes snow never melts.
丛林	这只老虎拖着它的猎物进了cong2lin2。	The tiger dragged its kill into the jungle.
游艇	他们在雷达屏上看到了那艘you2ting3.	They picked up the yacht on their radar screen.
劫匪	那些jie2fei3都戴著面罩蒙著脸.	The robbers all wore hoods to hide their faces.
罗杰	她开始与Luo2jie2外出约会, 就把我撇开了.	She gave me the elbow when she started going out with Roger.
恰	他们qia4在发洪水之前离开, 走得真是时候.	Their departure just before the floods was providential.
姑妈	去年秋天埃米莉gu1ma1做了12瓶番茄酱。	Aunt Emily put up a dozen cans of tomato last fall.
小费	别忘了给服务员xiao3fei4.	Please remember (ie Don't forget to tip) the waiter.
血腥	农民起义，农民暴动农民暴动，特别是指xue4xing1大暴动	A peasant revolt, especially a very bloody one.
无缘	我对艺术一窍不通，我没见过什么大人物，我也不进好裁缝铺，这些全与我wu2yuan2。我不是出自他所认为的社会上层。	I don't know anything about art, and I haven't met any grand people, and I don't go to a good tailor, and all that, I'm not what he calls out of the top drawer.
州长	我很荣幸能介绍我们的zhou1zhang3	I have the honor to present the governor.
虔诚	他十分qian2cheng2地崇拜女明星。	He adores this screen goddess with godliness.
腹部	他在我fu4bu4撞了一下。	He gave me a butt on the stomach.
火山	huo3shan1气体的温度很高。	The temperature of volcanic gases is very high.
一味	一个正直的法官不能yi1wei4顺从舆论。	An honest judge cannot be servile to public opinion.
特地	我te4di4为你做了个蛋糕。	I made a cake specially for you.
大清早	他总是da4qing1zao3给我打电话.	He's eternally telephoning me early in the morning.
病房	这医院有内科bing4fang2和外科bing4fang2。	The hospital have a medical ward and a surgical ward.
搜寻	他拼命在她的书桌里sou1xun2那封信。	He was rifling through her desk in a desperate search for the letter.
毒素	经分析发现蛋糕里含有微量的du2su4。	The cake on analysis was found to contain traces of toxin.
涨价	现在的钢材zhang3jia4了。	Now the steel comes high.
体温	她的ti3wen1降下不来。	Her temperature won't come down.
个头	他ge4tou2很大, 夹在我和窗户之间, 我看不见外边的东西了.	He interposed his considerable bulk (ie body) between me and the window, so that I could not see out.
提早	这个孩子是ti2zao3五周生下来的。	The baby was five weeks premature.
伊丽莎白	英国女王Yi1li4sha1bai2一世时代是探索和发现的时代.	The Elizabethan age was a time of exploration and discovery.
道别	我匆忙离开那个村子, 甚至没有时间和我的向导dao4bie2。	I left the village in a hurry and even had no time to say good-bye to my guide.
前任	希思先生是英国qian2ren4首相。	Mr. Heath is the former Prime Minister of Britain.
外国人	我奶奶对wai4guo2ren2抱有偏见。	My grandmother has a complex against foreigners.
茶叶	这个商人收到了一船cha2ye4。	The merchant had received a shipment of tea.
脸红	这姑娘太害羞以至和男人讲话时就lian3hong2。	The girl is so shy that she colours up whenever a man speaks to her.
常客	那一群说三道四的chang2ke4们聚集在小酒店里，议论那对医生夫妇。	The regulars are holding a mother's meeting down at the pub to discuss the news about the doctor and his wife.
斗志	失败的消息夺走了我们所有的dou4zhi4。	The news of defeat took all the fight out of us.
实习生	shi2xi2sheng1接受有指导性实践训练的高年级学生或新毕业的学生	An advanced student or a recent graduate undergoing supervised practical training.
运送	散装yun4song4货物更方便。	It is more convenient to transport the goods in bulk.
娇	她长得jiao1柔美丽。	She is delicate and pretty in person.
景象	那幅画和当时的jing3xiang4完全一致。	The drawing is on all fours with the scene at that moment.
叠	他掏出一die2用旧了的纸币。	He pulled out a pile of used bank note.
提交	他向老板ti2jiao1了一份报告。	He submitted a report to his boss.
管道	发动机将水沿guan3dao4抽来。	The engine draws water along the pipe.
流水	我听见有liu2shui3的声音.	I can hear running water.
扮	小丑ban4出了可笑的鬼脸。	The clowns pulled funny faces.
终生	那次事故使他毁容，zhong1sheng1无法恢复。	The accident disfigured him for life.
大亨	除非某个心怀不满的da4heng1加以反对并威胁要退出，这样决定下来的名单就成了人名单。如果出现反对或退出的行为，那就称为“撕毁候选人名单”。	The list so settled it now a slate, unless some discontented magnate objects and threatens to withdraw. To do so is called""breaking the slate"".
十字架	shi2zi4jia4是基督教的象征。	The Cross is the symbol of Christianity.
舰队	有一名叛变者透露了敌方jian4dui4的部署.	A defector revealed the disposition of the enemy fleet.
看成	不应把人的因素kan4cheng2是经济体制的附庸.	People should not be regarded as subservient to the economic system.
往前	那个小男孩在他母亲身边跳跳蹦蹦地wang3 qian2走。	The little boy skipped along at his mother's side.
皮带	警察系上pi2dai4，走了出去。	The police belted up and went out.
国民	英国guo2min218岁始有选举权.	UK nationals get the vote at 18.
可耻	这些年，他干了许多ke3chi3的事情。	He has done many dishonorable things these years
十七	结果非常令人吃惊——六个月增长百分之七shi2qi1。	The result is quite startling-- a77% increase in six months.
发音	开的fa1yin1时，舌头放低并放平，口腔敞开，正如bath一词中的a和father中的afa1yin1一样时。用于元音fa1yin1	Pronounced with the tongue placed low and flat and with the oral cavity wide open, like the a in bath when pronounced like the a in father. Used of vowels.
状	谁将起草起诉zhuang4？	Who will draft the indictment?
公爵	gong1jue2命令仆人把一封信送给国王。	The duke ordered the servant to send a letter to the king.
转弯	在第二个zhuan3wan1处向左转。	Take the second turning on the left.
罐子	这些guan4zi5可盛的液体多少不等[容量不同].	The jars hold different volumes of liquid/have different volumes.
大雾	飞机因da4wu4推迟降落。	The plane's landing was delayed because of fog.
暴躁	胆汁质（bao4zao4）的哲学家的世界观，要加上一小撮盐方能接受，惟以泻盐为较佳。	A bilious philosopher's opinion of the world can only be accepted with a pinch of salt, of epsom salt by preference.
证券	纽约是国际zheng4quan4与股票的交易中心。	New York is an international mart for stocks and shares.
流畅	具有不同凡响的深度和liu2chang4性的一次钢琴演奏	A piano performance of particular depth and fluidity.
看病	要她去牙科医生那里kan4bing4非得生拉硬拽不可.	She had to be dragged into seeing the dentist.
赌注	抽头扑克牌戏中每一次du3zhu4的一部分凑集成的钱	A fund made up of a portion of each pot in a poker game.
懦夫	nuo4fu1一生要经过许多次死的痛苦。	Cowards die many times before their death.
园	yuan2中有一堆马铃薯。	There is a pile of potato in the garden.
抢购	大减价货物中最便宜的物品很快qiang3gou4一空.	The cheapest articles at the sale were quickly snapped up.
求救	她向她父亲喊叫qiu2jiu4。	She called to her father for help.
长度	她用步子测量了房间的chang2du4.	She paced out the length of the room.
以色列	摩西率领Yi3se4lie4的子民离开了埃及。	Moses led the children of Israel out of the Egypt.
尺寸	我可以量一下您的chi3cun4吗？	Can I take your measurements?
瑞典	斯堪的那维亚是指丹麦、挪威、Rui4dian3和冰岛。	Scandinavia refers to Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Iceland.
画家	莫奈是印象派hua4jia1。	Manet is a painter of impressionism.
思路	我恐怕没有抓住你的论据的si1lu4。	I'm afraid I've lost the thread of your argument.
称之为	他们爱举行戏cheng1zhi1wei2文学晚会的活动.	They're fond of holding what are laughingly known as literary soirees.
全家	他们quan2jia1除他以外头发都是红的. 正所谓有例外才证明有规律嘛.	All his family have red hair except him. He is the exception which proves the rule.
看清	距离六英里以外的东西很难kan4qing1.	At a distance of six miles you can't see much.
停机	在计算机程序运行过程中发生的一种不希望有的或意料之外的ting2ji1，一般是由于编码失误、硬件故障或操作者的错误而引起的。参阅run。	In computing, an unwanted or unforeseen halt in a program run, due to faulty coding, hardware errors or operator mistakes.
伤疤	那次事故後她的腿上留下了shang1ba1。	The accident left a scar on her leg.
卑劣	恶毒或bei1lie4的行为	A spiteful or malicious act.
框	这种金属kuang4受压後容易变形。	The metal frame tends to twist under pressure.
取笑	别qu3xiao4青年人的装模作样；他们只不过是为了找寻自我而逐一试装出各种面孔罢了。	Do not laugh at a youth for his affectations; he is only trying on one face after another to find his own.
后者	人不同于野兽，因前者能笑，而hou4zhe3却不能。	Man differs from beasts in that the former is able to laugh, while the latter aren't.
普通人	想过舒适的生活不过是pu3tong1ren2的本性。	It's only human nature to want a comfortable life.
招募	我们难以zhao1mu4到素质好的职员。	We are having difficulties in recruiting well-qualified staff.
控告	对他贪污的kong4gao4已经提出.	Accusations of corruption have been made/brought/laid against him.
明月	一轮ming2yue4当空照耀着。	Overhead the moon was shining.
黑白	这胶卷是彩色的还是hei1-bai2的?	Is the film in colour or black and white?
出错	她意识到在所采用的方法中可能chu1cuo4.	She recognized the potential for error in the method being used.
触摸	油漆未乾--请勿chu4mo1.	Fresh paint please do not touch.
过世	她写道：亲爱的詹姆斯，刚听说你妻子guo4shi4了，我真不知道该怎样表达我的悲伤之情。	Dear James, she wrote, I have just heard of your wife's death. I can't tell you how sorry I am.
价值观	和美国家庭的这种爱同时并存的是自强及独立的文化jia4zhi2guan1。	Coexisting with such love in the American family are cultural values of self-reliance and independence.
过人	他听说guo4ren2是有一定的自由（纬度）与寡妇来往的，于是乎他就追求180度的全部自由去了。	He has heard that one is permit a certain latitude with widow, and goes in for the whole180 degrees.
坦克	我们需要多调些tan3ke4到前线.	We need to bring up more tanks.
重重	他心事chong2chong2，眉头紧锁。	Care sat heavily on his brow.
橙汁	一杯cheng2zhi1饮料没有什么营养。	There's not much sustenance in a glass of orange squash.
体检	诊断通过评价病人的病史、ti3jian3情况和阅读试验数据的方式对人体机能进行检验或对人体引起病痛的原因进行鉴别的行为或过程	The act or process of identifying or determining the nature and cause of a disease or injury through evaluation of patient history, examination, and review of laboratory data.
名称	这个词是一种野兽的ming2cheng1。	This word denotes a certain kind of animal.
想家	到了这里一个月以后，学生们开始xiang3jia1了。	The students began to feel homesick after they had been here for a month.
彩	失败的队；未中的cai3券	A losing team; a losing lottery ticket.
信用	xin4yong4咨询使我们免除了忧虑	Credit counseling helped us get out from under.
头盔	这些警察戴着tou2kui1保护自己。	These policemen wear helmets to protect them.
衡量	heng2liang2驾驶员水平的决定性考验, 就是看他在紧急关头能否保持镇静.	The acid test of a good driver is whether he remains calm in an emergency.
沟	汽车驶离道路跌进gou1中。	The car ran off the road into a ditch.
看作	我们把蒲公英kan4zuo4希望的象征。	We regard dandelion as an emblem of hope.
最为	这些冷冻食品是zui4wei2方便。	These frozen foods are the most convenient of all.
开业	约翰去南方跑了一趟，打算在那儿kai1ye4。	John made a trip to the South and considered setting up there.
摔跤	别向后看，不然你会shuai1jiao1的。	Don't look behind or you may fall.
杏仁	xing4ren2能吃吗？	Are kernels of apricots edible?
纳粹	几个南美洲国家和Na4cui4德国断绝了外交关系。	Several South American states broke off diplomatic relations with Nazi Germany.
花钱	巧妙的广告诱使人hua1qian2.	Clever advertisements are just temptations to spend money.
课堂	有些教师觉得ke4tang2秩序很难维持.	Some teachers find it difficult to keep order in their classes/to keep their classes in order.
包饺子	bao1 jiao3zi5前，我把瘦肉细细剁碎。	I minced the lean meat finely before making dumplings.
出价	史密斯悄悄地向地向拍卖人做手势，然后把chu1jia4又抬高了1，000元。	Smith signaled the auctioneer quietly and kicked the bid up another thousand.
将要	一场示威游行jiang1yao4发生。	A disorderly demonstration will take place.
条子	有人给你留下这张tiao2zi5.	Someone left you this note/left this note for you.
激光	现在ji1guang1可以用来做手术。	Lasers can be used to perform operations nowadays.
两者	社会是由形形色色的人组成。有些人很好，有些人很坏，也有些人介乎liang3zhe3之间。	Society is made up of a variety of people; some are good, others (are) bad, and still others (are) in between.
保健	她对bao3jian4食品极为讲究了.	She started to become/wax lyrical about health food.
理财	她善于li3cai2。	She is wise in money matters.
是不是	这个问题shi4bu5shi4个圈套?	Is this question a trap?
要不然	除非有钱，yao4bu5ran2我是不会买房子的。	Unless (being) rich, I am not going to buy a house.
笼子	把鸟关在long2zi5里残忍不残忍?	Is it cruel to confine a bird in a cage?
潜在	含意；暗流；内在性质隐含的或含蓄的倾向或意义；qian2zai4势力	An underlying or implied tendency or meaning; an undercurrent.
后院	我那时正在hou4yuan4劈柴。	I was out in the back yard splitting logs.
军官	当jun1guan1的应懂得怎样统率士兵	An officer must know how to handle his men.
好在	这伙小偷计划hao3zai4警察进房搜查时，把偷来的手表栽赃到同住的房客身上。	The thieves had planned to plant the stolen watches on a fellow lodger if the police came to search the house.
饮酒	酗酒成性的人承认yin3jiu3过度是弊多利少，他这样说实际是自己打自己的嘴巴。	By admitting that excessive drinking does more harm than good, the man who indulged in the practice was condemned out of his own mouth.
福建	Fu2jian4中国东南部的一个省份，濒临东海和台湾海峡。经济以农业和渔业为主，省会为福州。人口27，130，000	A province of southeast China on the East China Sea and the Formosa Strait. Agriculture and fishing are important to its economy. Fuzhou is the capital. Population, 27,130,000.
删	我shan1除了这篇文章的一个段落。	I cut out the paragraph in this article.
无关紧要	我认为在这些本来是wu2guan1-jin3yao4的评论中含有一定的真实性。	I think there is a kernel of truth in these otherwise frivolous comments.
手册	计算机shou3ce4将告诉你如何连接打印机线	The computer manual will tell you how to attach a line printer.
高层	我们的视野受到了那座gao1ceng2建筑物的限制。	Our field of vision is limited by that tall building.
宁	我们ning2死而不投降。	We would rather die than surrender.
朦胧	meng2long2中她只看见树木的轮廓.	She could see only the outline(s) of the trees in the dim light.
有点儿	她you3dian3r5喜欢他.	She kind of/sort of likes him.
弹力	橡皮球tan2li4好.	A rubber ball bounces well.
妖怪	爷爷，你装个yao1guai4！	Be a monster, grandfather!
十六	我的新家在第shi2liu4层。	My new house is on the sixteenth floor.
毯子	太冷了--我再要一条tan3zi5.	It's cold I need another blanket.
英格兰	这条溪谷在Ying1ge2lan2的北部。	The dale is in the north of England.
热气	re4qi4经白色的沙面反射形成了蜃景.	The heat reflected from the white sand formed a mirage.
导师	她的dao3shi1说她进步很大.	Her tutor says she is making good progress.
面粉	面包主要是由mian4fen3做成的。	Bread is chiefly made of flour.
雪茄	他点燃了xue3jia1。	He lit up a cigar.
花瓶	这个hua1ping2的年代比那个的早.	This vase is of an earlier date (ie is older) than that one.
审问	警方对他进行拘留shen3wen4.	The police detained him for questioning.
剥夺	新的新闻审查法目的在於bo1duo2新闻界的言论自由。	The new censorship laws are an attempt to gag the press.
脆	烤面包片，煎面包片一种烤的或油煎的cui4面包片	A small crisp piece of toasted or fried bread.
番茄酱	去年秋天埃米莉姑妈做了12瓶fan1qie2jiang4。	Aunt Emily put up a dozen cans of tomato last fall.
牧场	受惊的牛群向mu4chang3涌去.	The cattle stampeded towards the farm.
苦难	每个人都有ku3nan4需要承受.	We all have our crosses to bear.
说道	兰登作了一次不成功的朗诵。老师有点不悦，对他shuo1dao5：“兰登，你在这门课上好像进步不大，你好像缺乏志向。”	Landon had made an unsuccessful attempt at the recitation, and the doctor, somewhat nettled, said:""Landon, you don't seem to be getting on very fast in this subject.""
少量	shao3liang4的果冻	A dab of jelly.
回事	他们两人并不知道这hui2shi4, 因此一定是另外有人泄露了秘密.	Neither of them knew about it, and the corollary of that is that someone else revealed the secret.
慈悲	他对忏悔的罪人一概ci2bei1为怀。	He is kind and gracious to all sinners who repent.
马车	那是一架漂亮的加冕ma3che1。	That's a beautiful coronation coach.
迪克	Di2ke4摊开了一幅地图。	Dick spread out a map.
墙壁	我的膝盖撞上了qiang2bi4。	I've bumped my knee on the wall.
虚构	xu1gou4，捏造xu1gou4作品或捏造借口的行为	The act of inventing such a creation or pretense.
职员	zhi2yuan2们在专心工作。	The clerks are at work attentively.
班车	在市中心和飞机场之间有往返的穿梭运行ban1che1。	There is a shuttle service between the city center and the air station.
处在	国家chu3zai4危急的状态中。	The country is in a desperate state.
羞愧	他对他的错深感xiu1kui4.	He felt mortified for his mistake.
尿布	从niao4bu4到尊严、又从尊严到解体，只不过是短短的一段岁月而已。	It is but a few short years from diaper to dignity and from dignity to decomposition.
逃亡	时髦，是tao2wang2自庸俗而又惟恐被？上的假斯文。	Fashion is gentility running away from vulgarity, and afraid of being overtake.
难题	我解答不了这个nan2ti2。	I can't solve the problem.
胆小	我一想到要对这样的听众讲话，就有些dan3xiao3。	I was rather daunted by the thought of addressing such an audience.
教导	他jiao4dao3说，战争有正义的和非正义的两种。	He taught that wars can be just or unjust.
先知	汤姆是十六世纪的xian1zhi1。	Tom is one of the seers in the sixteenth century.
吓唬	对不起, 我不是故意xia4hu5你的.	Sorry, I didn't mean to frighten you.
淀粉	糖和dian4fen3在胃里被分解.	Sugar and starch are broken down in the stomach.
与否	不管他愿意yu3fou3，他非得去参加讲座。	Whether he wanted it or not, he had to attend the lecture.
睁开	她zheng1kai1[闭上]眼睛.	She opened/closed her eyes.
无家可归	我很同情那些wu2 jia1 ke3 gui1的人。	I have much sympathy with those homeless people.
茶馆	cha2guan3里有个人在非常自负地侃政治。	A man in the teahouse was laying the law down on politics.
爪子	防御器官动物或植物的防护层，结构或器官，如牙齿，zhua3zi5，荆棘或乌龟的壳	A protective covering, structure, or organ of an animal or a plant, such as teeth, claws, thorns, or the shell of a turtle.
碳	硅铁一种用于生产tan4素钢的铁和硅的合金	An alloy of iron and silicon used in the production of carbon steel.
成年	你已经cheng2nian2了, 这些问题要自己解决。	Since you are already of age now, you should solve the problems by yourself.
忠告	简介给予或接受简洁的预备性的指令、信息或zhong1gao4的行为或步骤	The act or procedure of giving or receiving concise preparatory instructions, information, or advice.
一块儿	咱们来把它们用胶水粘在yi1kuai4r5。	Let's stick them together with gum.
阳光明媚	今天yang2guang1ming2mei4，天气宜人，是吗？	Nice and bright today, is not it?
长寿	他的chang2shou4令他的继承人们不快	His longevity vexed his heirs.
声望	她是个有sheng1wang4的专家。	She is a reputable expert.
小腿	他在石头台阶上（跌倒了,）擦破了xiao3tui3的皮.	He barked his shins (by falling) against some stone steps.
存款	他的cun2kuan3总额达五万元。	His total deposits are50000 yuan.
西北	约翰内斯堡南非最大的城市，位于该国的东北部，在德班xi1bei3。在其附近发现金矿后于1886年建立，为主要的工业中心。人口703，980	The largest city of South Africa, in the northeast part of the country northwest of Durban. Founded in1886 after the discovery of gold nearby, it is a major industrial center. Population, 703,980.
习惯性	抽筋肌肉xi2guan4xing4或过分活动引起的局部暂时性麻痹	A temporary partial paralysis of habitually or excessively used muscles.
运转	该项装置是按照热力上升的原理yun4zhuan3的。	The system works on the principle that heat rises.
侵入	细菌会qin1ru4有机体。	Germs may invade the organism.
发掘	fa1jue2过去的历史是不容易的。	It is not easy to dig out the past.
场地	获胜的队扛著队长走出chang3di4.	The winning team chaired their captain off the field.
墓地	他的遗体埋葬在教堂的mu4di4里.	His mortal remains are buried in the churchyard.
对了	向导把该地历史的老一套讲得滚瓜烂熟，但当你一问起别的东西时，他就瞠目结舌，无言以dui4le5。	The guide was ready enough with his usual pattern on the history of the place, but as soon as you began to question him on anything outside that, he was all at sea.
篮	宴会上，大家吃掉了好几lan2水果。	Several baskets of fruit were eaten at the party.
酸痛	他膝盖suan1tong4。	He has a pain in the knee.
观	他的人生guan1与你的不同。	His view of life is different from yours.
舞伴	他和他的wu3ban4带头跳一种快步舞。	He led off with his companion in a sort of quick-step.
探险	tan4xian3人员消失在密林里了.	The jungle swallowed up the explorers.
换成	约翰储蓄10分钱的储蓄券，一直到他有足够的钱才huan4cheng225元的公债券。	John saved10 cent savings stamps until he had enough to exchange for a$25bond.
冰块	彗星上的bing1kuai4在太阳热的作用下迅速而壮观地升华成气体。	The comet's ice, heated by the sun, rapidly and spectacular sublimate to gas.
来信	我好久没有收到约翰的lai2xin4了。	I have not heard from John for a long time.
群体	连结，连系有连系的系列或qun2ti3	A connected series or group.
咒语	zhou4yu3将青蛙和老鼠又变回成了人。	The magic spell changed the frogs and rats back into men.
沙子	道路在暴风雪之后铺上了sha1zi5。	The roads were sanded after the snowstorm.
剩余	把客人都挤在sheng4yu2的几个房间里了。	Guests were crowded into the few remaining rooms.
有毒	眼镜蛇通常是you3du2的。	Cobras are usually poisonous.
吃药	我给孩子chi1yao4的，大人，""姑娘哽咽地说，""老天爷作证，我并没有害人之心。""	I gave the baby the medicine, your honour, "" sobbed the girl. ""But as God is my witness, I meant no harm.""
下课	那些男孩子们渴望xia4ke4。	The boys were itching for the lesson to end.
金牌	夺得jin1pai2是她又一值得骄傲的成就.	Winning the gold medal was yet another feather in her cap.
赴	开口问路，罗马可fu4。	He who has a tongue go to rome.
联赛	我们队在上季度的lian2sai4中排名最後.	Our team came/was bottom of the league last season.
诉说	她呜咽着su4shuo1自已的孩子是怎样死去的。	She sobbed out the story of the death of her child.
山羊	客迈拉一种通常被描绘成狮子、shan1yang2和蛇的组合体吐火的雌性怪物	A fire-breathing she-monster usually represented as a composite of a lion, goat, and serpent.
缓慢	鼓声平稳而huan3man4。	The beats of the drum were steady and slow.
淹死	小女孩在河里yan1si3了。	The little girl drowned in the river.
出院	chu1yuan4时，我已经完全痊愈了。	When I left the hospital I was completely cured.
列宁	共产国际世界上共产党的联合，由Lie4ning2在1919年建立，1943年解散	An association of Communist parties of the world, established in1919 by Lenin and dissolved in1943.
何不	我们he2bu4开瓶香槟酒庆祝一下呢？	Why don't we crack open a bottle of champagne to celebrate?
适用	安全驾驶之规则shi4yong4于每个人。	The rules of safe driving apply to everyone.
卷入	他因juan3ru4丑闻, 在名誉上留下污点.	His involvement in the scandal was a blot on his reputation.
用于	画笔yong4yu2画画的刷子	A brush for applying paint.
逊	小说中的事远xun4於实际体验.	Fiction is a poor surrogate for real experience.
对外	紫禁城dui4wai4国旅游者来说是个有巨大吸引力的地方。	Forbidden City is a great magnet for foreign tourists.
恰恰	这qia4qia4减低了他正在提倡的政策本身的价值。	It beggars the very policy he was advocating.
火花	烟火炸开放出一阵huo3hua1.	The firework exploded in a shower of sparks.
债务	我们的zhai4wu4总计为五千美元。	We have debts totaling 5000 dollars.
百万富翁	他不穷, 相反, 他是个bai3wan4 fu4weng1。	He is not poor, on the contrary, he is a millionaire.
更为	我们需要一个geng4wei2灵活的外交政策。	We need a foreign policy that is more flexible.
发热	因发烧而fa1re4的孩子	A child burning with fever.
脚印	他们重踏著脚步穿过厨房走来, 留下了肮脏的jiao3yin4.	They came tramping through the kitchen leaving dirty footmarks.
来讲	因此，对一个从事社会活动的人lai2 jiang3，培养一种嗜好和新的情趣方式，乃是至关重要的对策。	The cultivation of a hobby and new forms of interest is therefore a policy of first importance to a public man.
红灯	只要hong2deng1一亮，就表示有危及职工的险情。	Only if the red light comes on is there any danger to employee.
出轨	有一棵树横在铁轨上, 造成机车chu1gui3.	The engine was derailed by a tree lying across the line.
撤	che4哈拉大部分地区终年无雨。	Most of Sahara receives almost no rain at all.
电线	我们必须先测量dian4xian4的直径。	We must gauge the diameter of wire first.
转动	汽车的轮子开始zhuan3dong4.	The wheels of the car began to turn.
无言	向导把该地历史的老一套讲得滚瓜烂熟，但当你一问起别的东西时，他就瞠目结舌，wu2yan2以对了。	The guide was ready enough with his usual pattern on the history of the place, but as soon as you began to question him on anything outside that, he was all at sea.
游荡	经济萧条时期，有好几百万的失业者在街头you2dang4。	During the depression, millions of the unemployed wandered around in the streets.
明亮	那间办公室又ming2liang4又通风.	The office was light and airy.
涉嫌	警方已编制了she4xian2者名单.	The police have compiled a list of suspects.
肥胖	由于fei2pang4, 大夫叫我停止吃肉。	The doctor told me to cut out meat for my fat.
拉链	la1lian4由平行的金属、塑料或尼龙的齿状物制成的，在开口临近边缘上被滑动的拉环锁住的紧扣物	A fastening device consisting of parallel rows of metal, plastic, or nylon teeth on adjacent edges of an opening that are interlocked by a sliding tab.
憔悴	他显得很qiao2cui4。	He looks haggard.
在内	他们住zai4nei4地.	They live inland.
例	新法li4广获赞同.	The new laws gained widespread acceptance.
敬请	jing4qing3您出席股东会议.	Your presence is requested at the shareholders' meeting.
转运	不要灰心，每个人都有zhuan3yun4的一天。	Don't lose your hope, every dog has his day.
艺术品	所有的yi4shu4pin3中, 我最喜欢那幅油画。	Of all these works of art, the thing I like most is that painting.
以防万一	可能下雨--你最好带把伞, yi3fang2-wan4yi1（下起来）.	It may rain you'd better take an umbrella (just) in case (it does).
行星	土星是依次离太阳的第六颗xing2xing1。	Saturn is the planet sixth in order from the sun.
国土	象中国一样，美国继承了幅员辽阔的guo2tu3，有一望无际的丛山峻岭，沃土良田和无边草原。	Like you, we inherited a vast land of endless skies, tall mountains, rich fields, and open prairies.
好意	我该怎样才能报答你的hao3yi4呢？	How can I ever repay you for your kindness?
持有	这家人chi2you3可以证明他们享有所有权的文件.	The family possessed documents that proved their right to ownership.
谨	我jin3祝您一切顺利。	I'd like to wish you every success.
东部	dong1bu4地区处于东面的区域或地带	An area or a region lying in the east.
日本人	那个加拿大籍Ri4ben3ren2两种语言都精通。	The Canadian-Japanese is at home in both languages.
帕	这出戏里有若干典型的斯托pa4特式的场景.	The play contains a number of typical Stoppard set pieces.
合唱	比尔先唱独唱部分, 然後大家一起he2chang4.	Bill sang the verses and everyone joined in the chorus.
图画	墙上有一张tu2hua4。	There is one picture on the wall.
城镇	敌人占据了这个cheng2zhen4。	The enemy occupied the town.
春季	我们参加了chun1ji4展览会。	We participated in the spring fair.
伸手	我shen1shou3到桌子那端去拿果酱.	I reached across the table for the jam.
宝贝儿	我的bao3bei4r5!	My dearest treasure!
开关	她正找电灯kai1guan1。	She is fumbling the light switch.
碰见	你猜我今天peng4jian4谁了?	Guess who I bumped into today?
议会	yi4hui4决定废除那项法令。	The Congress decided to repeal the law.
面目	野蛮的长相凶恶的或mian4mu4狰狞的	Savage or threatening in appearance.
撤离	为che4li2该城作准备的命令已下达。	Order go out to prepare for the evacuation of the city.
键	有两个输入jian4有毛病。	Two input keys don't work.
把戏	别玩老一套的ba3xi4了！	Don't play old tricks!
私奔	她与老板si1ben1了.	She ran away with her boss/She and her boss ran away (together).
无须	也wu2xu1柏树来荫覆。	Nor shady cypress tree.
虚弱	她xu1ruo4得站不起来.	She was too weak to stand.
海口	如果他真地要你当众收回hai3kou3，那你也是活该；你本不该那样自吹自擂。	It serves you right if he did make you eat the leek in public; you should not be so boastful.
海伦	hai3 lun2在快餐店里点了炸鸡和色拉。	Helen ordered both fried chicken and salad in the fast-food restaurant.
冲出	汽车chong1chu1路面，陷进沟里。	The car careered off the road into a ditch.
顺眼	如果我是你，我现在就不会进去找他。他这会儿心情不好，见谁骂谁，看什么都不shun4yan3。	I shouldn't go in and see him now if I were you. He's having one of his bad days, swearing at everything and everyone.
特此	我te4ci3宣布，她当选了。	I hereby declare her elected.
咖喱	你在ga1li2食品中放了多少辣椒?	How much chilli did you put in the curry?
早年	这一章的标题是｀我zao3nian2的生活＇.	The chapter was headed My Early Life'.
奋战	他奋力开出一条生路；他fen4zhan4一生。	He fought his way through life.
日语	我的Ri4yu3相当差。	My knowledge of Japanese is rather poor.
往年	今年的稻米产量高于wang3nian2平均产量的百分之十五。	The rice crop this year is15 percent above the average.
吉利	为讨ji2li4我老是带著一个.	I always carry one for luck.
人身	这事可能发生在任何ren2shen1上。	It can happen to anyone.
扫除	由于进行大sao3chu2，屋里的一切弄得乱七八糟。	Everything in the house was turned upside down for the cleaning.
香皂	他用xiang1zao4洗手。	He washed his hands with a toilet soap.
洗衣机	她送给我们一台xi3yi1ji1.	She gave us a washing-machine.
不为人知	他的秘密至死也bu4 wei2 ren2 zhi1，因为他从未告诉过别人。	His secret died with him, for he never told anyone.
伤亡	shang1-wang2太大, 我们不得不撤退。	We have to draw off because of losses of forces.
喵	我们听到猫的miao1miao1叫声。	We heard the mewing of a cat.
通告	该tong1gao4将於明日见报.	The announcement will appear in tomorrow'snewspapers.
无私	对世界领袖的正直wu2si1的普通尊敬的瓦解	The collapse of popular respect for the integrity of world leaders.
有益	体育运动you3yi4健康。	Athletic sports are good to the health.
物体	立方体是三维wu4ti3。	A cube is a three-dimensional object.
餐桌	这些can1zhuo1是纵向摆放的。	The tables were laid lengthwise.
日夜	公共汽车ri4ye4都有班次。	The bus service runs day and night.
财经	美元突然贬值, cai2jing1专家无不大伤脑筋.	The sudden fall in the value of the dollar has puzzled financial experts.
介入	出于个人利益考虑, 男子开始jie4ru4女子的工作领域。	Men begin to enter female jobs out of consideration for personal interest.
早期	他们是一群zao3qi1的航海家。	They were a group of early navigators.
邋遢	穿衣随便，穿着la1ta5	Casual or lounging attire.
举止	我倒喜爱她那古怪的ju3zhi3.	I love her nutty behaviour!
分成	我们可以把动物fen1cheng2很多种类。	We can group animals into many types.
喜好	｀你喝茶有什麽xi3hao4?＇｀我喜欢淡一些的.＇	`How do you like your tea?' `I like it rather weak.'
常规	依照chang2gui1大臣在这种情况下应该辞职.	Convention dictates that a minister should resign in such a situation.
富人	门杜萨一生享有极高的声誉。穷人和fu4ren2都崇敬他。	In his day, Mendoza enjoyed tremendous popularity. He was adored by rich and poor alike.
成千上万	参观的人cheng2qian1-shang4wan4, 把台阶踩得不像样子了.	The steps had been worn away by the feet of thousands of visitors.
足足	我们在一场竞赛中赢了zu2zu2500英镑.	We won 500, no less, in a competition.
召集	他zhao4ji2了所有的部队.	He mustered all the troops.
余地	假如我有选择的yu2di4, 我三十岁就退休.	If I had the choice, I would retire at thirty.
就绪	宴会的准备工作现在都已jiu4xu4。	Everything is ready now for the party.
裂	这种木材容易lie4.	This wood cleaves easily.
拉丁	伦巴舞是La1ding1美洲的舞蹈.	The rumba is a Latin-American dance.
黄油	她探身去取放在餐桌对面的huang2you2。	She stretched across the table for the butter.
渡	钓鱼的人du4水到河中央去了.	The angler waded (out) into the middle of the river.
娘娘腔	别的男孩都叫汤米niang2niang5qiang1的男孩因为没有母亲在旁他就不肯出来玩。	The other boys called Tommy a mama's boy because he wouldn't come out to play unless his mother stayed near him.
激素	植物生长素一种调节多种功能，包括细胞伸长的植物ji1su4	Any of several plant hormones that regulate various functions, including cell elongation.
朝着	我相信通过双方的努力，交易往来定会chao2zhe5互利的方向发展。	I am convinced that with joint effort, business between us will be developing to our mutual benefit.
遗弃	被配偶yi2qi4是离婚的理由吗？	Does desertion ground for divorce?
午觉	父亲下午总要睡个wu3jiao4。	Father always takes a nap in the afternoon.
阿拉伯	阿布扎比A1la1bo2东部波斯湾上的一酋长国和城市。为A1la1bo2联合酋长国的首都。因为有大量的石油收入，该酋长国为世界上人均收入最高的国家之一。人口242，975	A sheikdom and city of eastern Arabia on the Persian Gulf. The city is the capital of the federated United Arab Emirates. With enormous oil revenues, the sheikdom has one of the highest per capita incomes in the world. Population, 242,975.
无所事事	新学期开学前，我一直wu2 suo3 shi4 shi4。	I'm just kicking my heels until the beginning of the new term.
穷人	他对qiong2ren2的慷慨为人所熟知。	His generosity to the poor is well known.
面对面	我们要mian4dui4mian4的研究一下这种情况。	We must discuss the situation eyeball to eyeball.
才能	你需用快刀cai2neng2把结切断.	You need a sharp knife to cut through the knot.
建国	按照古老的传说，罗穆卢斯是古罗马的jian4guo2者。	According to the old legend, Romulus was the founder of Rome.
水准	国民财富在很大程度上取决于一个国家的教育shui3zhun3。	National wealth depends to a high degree on a country's educational standard.
结冰	水在摄氏零度jie2bing1。	Water freezes at 0 Celsius degree.
看穿	他好像起了疑心--你觉得他kan4chuan1我们[我们要干的事]了吗?	He looks suspicious do you think he's rumbled us/what we're up to?
听众	他被ting1zhong4嘘下台来。	He was hissed off by the audience.
耻辱	他认为向他人乞求救济是chi3ru3。	He thinks it's a shame to beg others for alms.
布朗	玛丽·杜瓦尔夫人转交彼得·Bu4lang3先生.	Mr Peter Brown c/o Mme Marie Duval....
北部	他的家在这个城市的东bei3bu4。	His house is in the northeast of this city.
远处	yuan3chu4雷声隆隆。	The thunder rumbled in the distance.
每当	mei3dang1谈到我开车违章判罪问题时，我妻子忍不住要以此事当面责备我。	Every time the subject of my motoring conviction comes up my wife can't help throwing it in my face.
班长	ban1zhang3确实比我们略胜一筹。	The monitor is really a notch above us.
联合国	Lian2he2guo2大会是一种世界性的集会。	The United Nations assembly is a cosmopolitan gathering.
橙色	燃烧著的煤开始发出了黄色与cheng2se4的火焰.	The burning coals started to flame yellow and orange.
亡	她安葬在wang2夫的墓旁.	She was laid to rest beside her late husband.
翻身	你翻fan1shen1, 就容易睡著了.	If you turn over you might find it easier to get to sleep.
河流	他们担心he2liu2会发洪水。	They were fearful that the river would flood.
起立	听众全体qi3li4向演讲者欢呼.	The audience rose bodily to cheer the speaker.
玩耍	孩子们在沙坑中wan2shua3。	The children were playing in the sand pit.
毛线	她递给我一绞mao2xian4。	She passed me a skein of wool.
雇用	我们必须通过智力测验才能被老板gu4yong4。	We must pass an intelligence test before being hired by the boss.
暗杀	甘地，穆罕达斯·卡拉姆昌德1869－1948印度民族主义者和精神领袖，推动了非暴力不抵抗运动并迫使英国于1947年允许印度独立，被一个印度教狂热分子an4sha1	Indian political leader who served as prime minister(1966-1977) and(1980-1984). She was assassinated by Sikh extremists.
优质	镇上的面粉场主以you1zhi4面粉著称。	The town miller was famous for his excellent flour.
指南	这本书名为《美国文学zhi3nan2》。	This book is titled An Introduction to American Literature.
随心所欲	你总是sui2 xin1 suo3 yu4而不考虑我们的情感。	You always follow your own inclination instead of thinking of our feelings.
征兆	这次暴动可看作是政治上不稳定的zheng1zhao4。	The riot can be considered a symptom of political instability.
首相	他的演讲风格是模仿shou3xiang4的.	His style of public speaking is imitative of the prime minister.
大蒜	你尝得出炖肉里有da4suan4味儿吗?	Can you taste the garlic in this stew?
奇特	qi2te4，古怪具有特别的性质或状态	The quality or state of being peculiar.
怨恨	他无动於衷使她心中的yuan4hen4火上加油.	His indifference was a fuel to her hatred.
伏特	伏安法功率单位，等于一fu2te4和一安培的乘积，等于一瓦特	A unit of electric power equal to the product of one volt and one ampere, equivalent to one watt.
找寻	形而上学，等于为我们本能地相信的东西zhao3xun2无谓的理由。	Metaphysics is the finding of bad reasons for what we believe on instinct.
看样子	我看你的新助手不错－－她kan4 yang4zi5很能干。	I like the look of your new assistant she should do very well.
报导	空难事件中有些人大难不死被新闻界广泛bao4dao3。	The miraculous survival of some people in the air crash was widely reported by the press.
各地	你应该多到ge4di4走走以增广见识.	You should broaden your experience by travelling more.
着陆	一架飞机在机场zhuo2lu4。	An airplane alighted on the airdrome.
火力	士兵们遭到近距离的huo3li4射击。	The soldiers got fired into at close quarters.
恰好	边缘地带刚刚超出或qia4hao3在某特定地区的地带	A region just beyond or at the edge of a settled area.
大半	那里就是他度过da4ban4生的地方。	That's (the place) where he spent most of his life.
妒忌	【谚】du4ji4决不会致富。	Envy never enriched any man.
简洁	该计划的妙处在于jian3jie2明了。	The beauty of the plan consists in its simplicity.
监禁	这名罪犯被判处一年jian1jin4。	The criminal was sentenced to one year's imprisonment.
折扣	对如此大数量的订购，本公司希望以比价目表内所订价格为低的批发zhe2kou4来采购。	For an order of this large quantity we expect a wholesale discount off your price-list.
皇宫	进入huang2gong1时先要在入口大厅等候, 由人带领进入正殿.	You have to wait in a large entrance hall before being shown into the court proper.
船员	chuan2yuan2夺船未遂, 均以叛乱罪被枪决.	The crew tried to seize control of the ship, and were shot for mutiny.
气体	有的化学家研究qi4ti3的性质.	Chemists study the nature of gases.
接管	该公司已被美国一企业集团jie1guan3。	The firm has been taken over by an American conglomerate.
样样	近来差不多yang4yang4东西都涨价。	In recent times the price of just about everything has gone up.
同居	如果发现农奴私自tong2ju1，就会受到残酷鞭打。	If slaves were found living together secretly, they were cruelly whipped.
南昌	Nan2chang1起义标志着革命进人了新阶段。	The Nanchang Uprising marked a new stage for the revolution.
推动	该协会致力于tui1dong4世界和平事业。	The society was dedicated to furthering the cause of world peace.
打碎	我把da3sui4的盘子藏在餐桌后面了。	I hid the broken plate behind the table.
高中生	这本书太难而不适合大多数的gao1zhong1sheng1。	The book is too difficult for most senior high school students.
切除	医生们决定为他开刀qie1chu2肿瘤。	The doctors decided to operate on him for the tumor.
卸	码头工人开始xie4船.	Dockers started unloading (the ship).
整形	zheng3xing2术的，还原成形术有关对身体缺失部分进行还原的外科手术的	Relating to the surgical restoration of a lost or absent part.
痛恨	大多数人tong4hen4虐待儿童。	Most people abhor cruelty to children.
海豚	我们喜欢看hai3tun2的表演。	We like to see the performance of dolphins.
池	酷热使chi2水干枯。	The intense heat has dried up the pond.
贞德	圣女zhen1de2是法国最伟大的女性之一。	Joan of Arc was one of France's greatest daughters.
传言	有chuan2yan2说这星期将有台风。	It is in the air that there will be a typhoon this week.
配方	他们正在努力研制尽善尽美的新颜料pei4fang1.	They are working on the perfection of their new paint formula.
称作	比利时被cheng1zuo4欧洲战场。	Belgium has been called the cockpit of Europe.
芭蕾	该ba1lei3舞蹈学校给有特殊天赋的儿童提供免费学习的机会.	The ballet school offers free places to children who are exceptionally talented.
漆黑	他关上了灯，室内一片qi1hei1。	He turned off the light and the room was in complete darkness.
有幸	在这样重要的场合, 我们you3xing4能欢迎...	On an occasion such as this (ie as important as this) we are privileged to welcome...
阁楼	这间ge2lou2是用来存放东西的。	The loft is used for storing things.
无穷	正数的数目是wu2qiong2的。	The number of positive numbers is infinite.
皱	一阵微风吹zhou4了湖面。	A breeze ruffled the surface of the lake.
开张	当地一家商店的老板担心新kai1zhang1的超级市场会抢走他的饭碗。	The man in the local shop is worried that the new supermarket will take the bread out of his mouth.
无声	演讲结束的时候，房间里寂静wu2sheng1。	The room was still at the end of the speech.
山上	他们通过一条小路爬到shan1 shang4。	They climbed up the mountain through a defile.
国度	穆斯林guo2du4信奉伊斯兰教的民族或国家；穆斯林世界	The people or nations that practice Islam; the Moslem world.
林肯	在Lin2ken3就职其间，美国爆发了内战。	The America Civil War was broken out during the presidency of Lincoln.
车道	不要偏离che1dao4--这一带沼泽地多.	Keep to the track the moor is very boggy around here.
投资者	tou2zi1zhe3为这一风险而担心.	Investors were unhappy about the risk.
月球	宇宙飞船正绕yue4qiu2飞行。	The spacecraft is orbiting the moon.
六月	他是去年liu4yue4开始在这里工作的。	He started work here last June.
生来	她sheng1lai2即哑.	She's been dumb from birth.
莫斯科	政府已与Mo4si1ke1签了一项条约。	The Government has signed a treaty with Moscow.
可否	我们ke3fou3把这些项目都归在｀杂费＇项内?	Can we lump all these items together as incidental expenses'?
到头来	尽管计划度假时兴致勃勃, 而dao4tou2lai2假日本身却颇为扫兴.	The holiday itself was rather an anticlimax after all the excitement of planning it.
植入	医生在他受伤的腿中zhi2ru4了一块钢板。	The doctor inserted a steel plate into his damaged leg.
天花板	我们头顶上的tian1hua1ban3上吊著一盏灯.	A lamp was suspended from the ceiling above us.
冰雪	轰隆一声，大量bing1-xue3从山腰崩落。	The avalanche crashed down the mountainside.
到时	我正在成人学校补习法语，dao4shi2好让他们大吃一惊。	I'm brushing up on my French at adult school just to surprise them.
整夜	噪音一刻不停地持续了一zheng3ye4。	The noise went on all night without a moment's respite.
建筑物	这座jian4zhu4wu4有旗子作装饰.	The building was decorated with flags.
特质	宽大是他最主要的te4zhi4。	Generosity is his first attribute.
有钱人	这个懒惰的女孩正梦想着嫁给一个you3qian2ren2, 从此不再工作。	The lazy girl is dreaming of marrying a millionaire and therefore won't do any work.
海洛因	他在向小学生贩卖hai3luo4yin1时被捕.	He was caught pushing heroin to schoolchildren.
砂	sha1箱铸造车间内保持sha1模用的框架	A frame for holding a sand mold in a foundry.
弟兄	di4xiong5两个我谁也不相信，他们都是一路货色。	I won't trust either of the two brothers; they are tarred with the same brush.
料到	没liao4dao4，他对这件事的反应是这样的。	His reaction on this matter is unexpected.
拇指	经常吮吸mu3zhi3能使牙齿向外突出.	Thumb-sucking can cause protrusion of the teeth.
说起	我时常听人shuo1qi3这类事情.	I've often heard tell of such things.
悬	细绳上xuan2的珠子	Beads on a string.
迷糊	这个老太婆容易mi2hu5.	The old lady easily gets confused.
总体	趋向zong3ti3的倾向、动向或进程	A general tendency, movement, or course.
席	小心别在地xi2上绊倒了.	Be careful you don't trip (up) on the mat.
严	部队昨晚yan2阵以待。	The troops were embattled last night.
倒是	她并不聪明，但在其他方面，她dao4shi4个好姑娘。	She is not very clever, but otherwise she's a nice girl.
麦片	我每天早晨吃一碗mai4pian4粥。	I have a bowl of cereal every morning.
凡事	【谚】fan2shi4不可半途而废。	Never do things by halves.
老年	我们存了一些钱，以备lao3nian2之用。	We have saved some money against our old age.
比分	bi3fen1是四平.	The score was four all.
威利	Wei1li4玩他父亲的手枪时不小心走火了, 把墙壁打出一个洞。	Willie accidentally lets off his father's shotgun and made a hole in the wall.
插曲	短暂的仅限于一个cha1qu3持续的时间；短暂的	Limited to the duration of an episode; temporary.
饶	我要是找到了那小子，我rao2不了他，你看他做的这事。	I'll take that boy apart when I find him: look what he's done now.
老头子	走进酒店的那个lao3tou2zi5已经90岁了.	That (old) gaffer going into the pub is 90 years old.
骆驼	在动物园我看见了两只小luo4tuo5。	I saw two small camels in the zoo.
登上	他deng1shang4王位时才八岁。	He was only eight when he ascended the throne.
军方	jun1fang1声称如内乱不平息将实行军管.	The army is/are threatening to take over if civil unrest continues.
开饭	您想让我现在kai1fan4吗?	Do you wish me to serve dinner now?
梁	这根liang2厚3英寸。	The beam has a thickness of 3 inches.
牙刷	别忘了把ya2shua1放到箱子里去!	Don't forget to pack your toothbrush!
平平	我是个手艺ping2ping2的厨师。	I'm an indifferent cook.
开拍	摄影机准备好了吗? 好, kai1pai1!	Cameras ready? OK, shoot!
飓风	外面ju4feng1呼啸著.	The hurricane screamed outside.
劳资	lao2-zi1双方之间存在大量矛盾.	There is a great deal of friction between the management and the work force.
灯泡	这deng1pao4是向内侧爆裂的.	The light bulb imploded.
院长	修道院yuan4zhang3告诉他要遵守规定。	The abbot told him to obey the rules.
好过	忏悔之后他觉得hao3guo4一点，并且能安眠了。	After confession he feels a little better and can sleep at ease.
优化	在you1hua4问题中，一种表示若干变量相互关系的方程（式）或不等式。	An equation or inequality relating the variables in an optimization problem.
人力	我怀疑他们是否真有足够的ren2li4。	I doubt whether they really have sufficient manpower.
三月	这个学期san1yue4一日开始。	This term will begin on March 1st.
编排	火车时刻bian1pai2得可与渡轮运行时刻衔接.	The train is timed to connect with the ferry.
犯规	他因为动作fan4gui1而被裁判记下姓名。	He was booked by the referee for foul play.
西湖	Xi1hu2美得难以描述。	The West Lake was beautiful beyond description.
基金会	他向ji1jin1hui4捐了一大笔钱，为ji1jin1hui4带来新的生机。	He breathed new life into the fund when he donated a large sum of money.
亚历山大	Ya4li4shan1da4大帝曾率领大军入侵印度.	Alexander the Great invaded India with a large army.
粉红色	这张古董桌子卖给那位戴fen3hong2se4帽子的女士了.	The antique table went to the lady in the pink hat.
胆量	勇敢，无畏，勇气，dan3liang4使人带有沉着、自信和决心面对危险、恐怖或世事无常的心理素质或状态；勇气	The state or quality of mind or spirit that enables one to face danger, fear, or vicissitudes with self-possession, confidence, and resolution; bravery.
枪支	他因非法贩卖qiang1zhi1而被捕。	He is arrested for the illegal sale of gun.
敢于	他是个gan3yu2思考的人，富有创新观点。	He is a bold thinker, with lots of original ideas.
雕像	雕刻家把大理石块凿成优美的diao1xiang4.	The sculptor chiselled the lump of marble into a fine statue.
球赛	有前面那个人挡著, 我看不见qiu2sai4.	The man in front was obstructing my view of the pitch.
庙	此miao4由粗大的柱子支撑.	The temple is supported by massive columns.
史密斯	shi3 mi4 si1夫人教那些快五岁的儿童。	Mrs Smith teaches the rising fives.
布鲁斯	我想用迈克尔·杰克逊的录音带交换你的bu4lu3si1·斯普林斯廷唱片集.	I'll swap (you) my Michael Jackson tape for your Bruce Springsteen album.
友人	我在一you3ren2处寄膳宿。	I'm boarding with a friend.
签约	该足球队已qian1yue1聘用了两名新队员。	The football team has signed two new players.
十月	因我们订购的是季节性商品，贵方务必于shi2yue4前装运，不然我们就赶不上季节了。	Be sure to ship the goods before October as what we ordered is seasonal goods. Otherwise we will not be able to catch the season.
冷冻	他以自己的名字命名的leng3dong4食品成了名牌。	He gave his name to a well-known brand of frozen food.
相符	这张照片与通缉人xiang1fu2.	The photograph answers to the description of the wanted man.
损害	忧虑sun3hai4了她的健康。	Cares preyed upon her health.
删掉	编辑把整段全shan1diao4了.	The editor struck out the whole paragraph.
来年	lai2nian2我不会去英格兰游览。	I won't be visiting England next year.
战友	他们埋葬了他们亲爱的zhan4you3。	They interred their dear comrade in the arms.
无处	该处地势平坦又没有树木, 部队wu2chu4隐蔽.	The land was flat and treeless and gave no cover to the troops.
外人	别客气，我又不是wai4ren2。	Don't stand on ceremony. I'm no stranger.
眼中	yan3zhong1闪耀着期盼的目光	Eyes shining with expectation.
小米	玉米、xiao3mi3和高粱较易适应不同的自然条件。	Maise, millet and kaoliang adapt readily to varying natural conditions.
打斗	那个卑鄙小人在玩扑克牌时作弊，因此引起一场da3dou4。	A fight break out because that scumbag cheat at poker.
退缩	但这并没有使他们动摇或tui4suo1。	But this did not make them waver or retreat.
订单	若你方能保证按期交货，我们要下大的ding4dan1。	If you can guarantee punctual delivery, we shall place large orders with you.
汽水	他要了两杯酸橙苏打qi4shui3。	He ordered two lime sodas.
零点	减去食物与能源的费用以后——这两项每月可能大幅变动——成品制造价格指数仍以略快的速度攀升百分ling2dian3四，相形之下，四月份仅上升ling2dian3二。	After subtracting food and energy costs, which can vary widely each month, the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods still rose at a moderately fast clip of four-tenths of1 percent, compared with a two-tenth rises in April.
发动机	那些是fa1dong4ji1的部件。	Those are the components of an engine.
手镯	这个shou3zhuo2是纯金的吗？	Is this bracelet genuine gold?
印记	受烤炙烙或印在一个表面上的一系列yin4ji4	A series of marks grilled or embossed on a surface.
转向	这条河从这里zhuan3xiang4北方。	The river turns north at this point.
嚷嚷	别那样对我大声rang1rang5，我能听清楚。	Don't shout into my ears like that, I can hear you perfectly well.
书包	她把shu1bao1了起来.	She parcelled up the books.
曼谷	Man4gu3为一个广阔潮湿的冲积平原所环绕，有纵横交错的运河网。	Bangkok is surrounded by a vast, damp, alluvial plain, crisscrossed by a network of klong.
骑马	参加打猎者打猎中的跟随着一群猎狗的全体qi2ma3猎人	The body of riders following a pack of hounds in hunting.
珍藏	在未来岁月里，让我们在记忆的长虹里永远zhen1cang2对他的怀念。	Now we can bask in the rainbow of the memories that we'll nurture in the years ahead.
演示	她画了一排由近而远高度递减的树以yan3shi4透视法的规律.	She drew a row of trees receding into the distance to demonstrate the laws of perspective.
地带	在多石di4dai4缓慢地颠簸前进	Bumped along slowly over the rocky terrain.
电器	房间里有些dian4qi4。	There are some electrical apparatus in the room.
特产	这些别有风味的小蛋糕是该地的te4chan3。	These small spiced cakes are a peculiarity of the region.
记忆力	你过于信赖你的ji4yi4li4了。	You trust to your memory too much.
星系	每一xing1xi4都有无数的恒星.	Each galaxy contains myriads of stars.
手掌	他用shou3zhang3揉了揉前额.	He rubbed his palm across his forehead.
要紧	有yao4jin3的事把他叫走了。	Something urgent has called him away.
果真	英国货币可能贬值，如果guo3zhen1如此，利率就会上升。	Sterling may fall, if (this should be) so, interest rates will rise.
拦住	这个堤坝lan2zhu5了滔滔的洪水.	Millions of gallons of water are kept back by the dam.
童子军	上星期我儿子被考核了急救方面的知识，现在他已获得六枚tong2zi3jun1奖章。	My son was examined in First Aid last week. He's got about six Scout badges now.
一口气	他yi1kou3qi4喝完了那一大杯。	He emptied the glass at on draft.
选中	选拔委员会xuan3zhong4那位稳健、有保守倾向的候选人。	The selection committee plumped for the safe, conservatively inclined candidate.
海湾	他画了hai3wan1里一个风景如画的渔村。	He painted the picturesque fishing village in the bay.
潜意识	动作倒错，失误动作一种如口误等被认为能揭示qian2yi4shi2动机的小错误	A minor error, such as a slip of the tongue, thought to reveal a subconscious motive.
用尽	士兵在那场战斗中yong4jin4了所有的弹药。	The soldiers expended all their ammunition in that fight.
鲜血	xian1xue4从伤口中流出.	Blood was welling(out) from the wound.
衣物	要洗的yi1wu4须称过重量再放入洗衣机中.	The load must be weighed before it is put in the washing-machine.
致死	他被暴徒殴打zhi4si3.	He was beaten to death by thugs.
河北	我出生在He2bei3省的一个小村庄。	I was born in a small village in Hebei Province.
丰富多彩	当你不再仅仅限于文字和静止图片时，网上生活会feng1fu4-duo1cai3得多。	Life on-line can be a much richer experience when you aren't restricted to just written words and still pictures.
失常	心律shi1chang2不规则的心跳强度或节奏	An irregularity in the force or rhythm of the heartbeat.
正午	我们估计zheng4wu3抵达德里.	We reckon to arrive in Delhi at noon.
法子	这次聚会一定没意思--咱们想个fa3zi5别去了.	It's bound to be a boring party let's try to wangle out of it/going.
从小	她cong2xiao3就学会了织布.	She had been taught to weave as a child.
气愤	她的懒惰让我qi4fen4。	Her laziness maddens me.
分类	图书馆的书是按科目fen1lei4的。	The books in the library are classified by subject.
指向	罗盘的指针永远zhi3xiang4北方.	A compass needle points (to the) north.
性生活	（欧洲）大陆人有xing4sheng1huo2，英国人则有热水瓶。	Continental people have sex life; the English have hot-water bottle.
浮现	那座巨大的岛屿隐隐约约fu2xian4在地平线上。	The mountainous island loomed on the horizon.
宣言	《解放黑人奴隶xuan1yan2》废除了美国的奴隶制。	The Emancipation Proclamation abolished slavery in the United States.
精子	雄性的jing1zi3使雌性的卵子受精.	The male sperm fertilizes the female egg.
强行	他被警察拘捕，控以qiang2xing2进入他人住宅的罪名。	He was held by the police or a charge of breaking and entering.
扳机	我扣动了ban1ji1，可是枪打不响，那鹿也就逃走了。	I pulled the trigger, but the gun hung fire and the deer escaped.
激怒	他那专横的口气ji1nu4了大家。	His peremptory tone irritated everybody.
虚幻	xu1huan4的想法易变的或幻想的想法；空想	A capricious or fantastic idea; a conceit.
致富	为zhi4fu4而牺牲原则是不值得的.	Getting rich isn't worth the sacrifice of your principles.
数目	容纳的shu4mu4不得超过200.	The number admitted must not exceed 200.
野生	野禽，猎鸟一种ye3sheng1的猎鸟，如野鸭、野鹅或鹌鹑	A wild game bird, such as a duck, goose, or quail.
身为	她无法掩盖她shen1wei2作家的不足之处.	She can't hide her deficiencies as a writer.
锤子	黄铜片黄铜或类似黄铜的合金，用chui2zi5锤成片状，过去用于制造教堂中的器具	Brass or an alloy resembling brass, hammered thin and formerly used in the manufacture of church vessels.
羽毛	金莺长着黑黄的yu3mao2。	An oriole is a bird which has black and yellow feathers.
狗屎	便道上满是gou3shi3。	The pavement was covered with dogs' excrement.
从头	他损失了所有的钱, 只好再cong2tou2做起.	He lost all his money and had to start again completely from scratch.
江西	这杆梭镖是Jiang1xi1根据地时代传下来的。	The spear descends from the Jiangxi-base days.
放羊	我们在旁边的地里fang4yang2。	We are grazing the sheep in the next field.
愈合	伤口不久就yu4he2了, 但却留下了伤疤.	The cut soon healed over/up, but it left a scar.
跃	他纵身一yue4就跳过了墙。	With one bound, he was over the wall.
草坪	这座房子有半英亩cao3ping2.	The house has half an acre of lawn.
颠覆	反叛者阴谋想dian1fu4政府。	The conspirators want to overthrow the government.
穿梭	在市中心和飞机场之间有往返的chuan1suo1运行班车。	There is a shuttle service between the city center and the air station.
引诱	这个男孩被yin3you4逃学。	The boy was enticed into playing truant.
传闻	你听到她打算辞职的chuan2wen2了吗？	Have you heard of her intention to resign?
车队	敌人袭击了我们的运货马che1dui4。	The enemy attacked our wagon train.
周刊	这期的zhou1kan1上有一篇有趣的文章。	There is an interesting article in this weekly.
扫地	他停止sao3di4，倚着扫帚休息。	He stopped sweeping and rested on the broom.
学者	他绝非xue2zhe3。	He is anything but a scholar.
衣橱	yi1chu2用来储藏衣服的一种柜子；衣柜	A chamber for storing clothes; a wardrobe.
德语	我懂一点儿De2yu3。	I know a little German.
认输	这个普普通通的指挥见到这样的乐谱便ren4shu1了。	The average conductor, faced with such a score, throws up his cards.
一旁	她把我拉到yi1pang2，对我耳语。	She drew me aside and whispered in my ear.
野外	汤姆想的是作他的ye3wai4实习。	What Tom wants is to do his field work.
绳	衣服在晾衣sheng2上冻住了.	The clothes were frozen on the washing-line.
血统	门第高贵的高贵xue4tong3的	Of noble lineage.
凶杀	xiong1sha1是最可恶的犯罪。	Murder is the most abominable crime.
走动	他来回zou3dong4着，大骂这场延误事故，因为每耽误一分钟都在消耗他的钱财。	He was walking to and fro swearing at the delay which was costing him so much money every minute.
听力	你可以把这些磁带当作ting1li4材料。	You can use these tapes as aural material.
无常	草原的气候变化wu2chang2。	The climate on grassland is capricious.
美德	【谚】mei3de2是无价之宝。	Virtue is a jewel of great price.
善意	北京为和台北建立联系展示shan4yi4姿态。	Beijing offers goodwill gesture to Taipei for links.
简短	便条jian3duan3的便条或备忘字条	A brief note or memorandum.
经受	船jing1shou4住了暴风雨，安全抵达。	The ship weathered the storm, and arrived safely.
海水	hai3shui3拍打著悬崖的底部。	The sea washes the base of the cliffs.
赠	政府为他颁zeng4勋章，以表彰他的卓著功绩。	The government recognized his outstanding service by give him a medal.
台球	连着双球的一击打tai2qiu2时的一击，主球接连撞击两球	A shot in billiards in which the cue ball successively strikes two other balls.
家中	几个星期来她一直呆在jia1zhong1照顾有病的父亲。	She has been tied to the house for weeks looking after her invalid father.
阿拉	a1la1上帝，尤指伊斯兰教上帝	God, especially in Islam.
不得	拐棍已折柱bu4de2。	Never lean on a break staff.
天性	先天论，tian1xing4论先天论，大脑不能从外界信息中产生想法	The doctrine that the mind produces ideas that are not derived from external sources.
提取	橡胶是从树中ti2qu3的。	Rubber is abstract ed from trees.
获奖	自从她在学校里huo4jiang3以来，她就一直目中无人，不愿与别的女孩子说话。	Since she won a prize at school she's been going about with her nose in the air and refusing to talk to the other girls.
乳	牛奶可制成凝ru3。	Milk can be made into curds.
传媒	他们投产的新轿车广获chuan2mei2报道.	The launch of their new saloon received much media coverage.
重逢	他们chong2feng2时, 昔日之明争暗斗旋即死灰复燃.	Their old rivalry soon surfaced when they met again.
紫外线	他们使用zi3wai4xian4灯杀死害虫。	They use ultraviolet lamp to kill pests.
腰部	这件衣服我穿yao1bu4太瘦.	The waist is too tight for me.
至极	他总是含糊zhi4ji2，写出的东西可谓“模棱两可”。	He is vague as may be; writing in what is called the""soaped-pig"" fashion.
去除	工人们正qu4chu2银中的杂质。	Workers are removing impurities from silver.
店员	那dian4yuan2一点也不怕麻烦。	The shop assistant was not in the least afraid of the trouble.
副作用	这种药没有什麽不良的fu4zuo4yong4.	The drug has no undesirable side-effects.
世俗	教皇在当代社会没有shi4su2方面的权利。	The Pope has no temporal power in modern society.
指点	关于这个问题，你能zhi3dian3我一下吗？	Can you enlighten me on this subject?
缓	花园呈huan3坡向河边倾斜.	The garden sloped gently downwards towards the river.
肤浅	这篇文章很短, 只能对这一问题作fu1qian3的探讨.	This essay is so short that it can only scratch the surface of the topic.
夸奖	人人都爱听kua1jiang3自己容貌的话.	One likes to hear complimentson one's appearance.
低于	低气压区大气压di1yu2正常值的地区	A region of atmospheric pressure that is below normal.
下跌	所有经济部门都遭受到这次汇率xia4die1带来的损失。	All sector of the economy suffer from the fall in the exchange rate.
套房	我们的房子只住我们两人实在太大了，所以我们利用周末抽空外出看看是否有合适的tao4fang2，想买一套。	Our house is too large for just the two of us and so we spent part of the weekend seeing over some flats with a view to buying one.
受苦	我们的人民正在暴君的统治下shou4ku3。	Our people are suffering at the hands of an oppressor.
借用	你可以随意jie4yong4我的车。	You are welcome to use my car.
没意思	你讲到一半就停下来不讲，太mei2 yi4si5了。	It's not nice of you to stop in the middle of what you are saying.
有害	吸烟you3hai4健康，这是大家公认的。	It is generally accepted that smoking is harmful to our health.
跳动	他的心脏停止了tiao4dong4。	Her heart stood still.
想不到	真xiang3bu5dao4会在这儿遇见你！	Fancy meeting you here!
燃料	冬天他们得节省ran2liao4.	They have to skimp on fuel in winter.
大力	在这种时候应da4li4反对如此浪费金钱。	Such waste of money should be deprecated at a time like this.
多半	他们duo1ban4坐汽车来。	They'll very likely come by car.
银色	铝是一种轻薄并呈yin2se4的金属。	Aluminum is a kind of light silvery metal.
松鼠	song1shu3储藏坚果以防冬天。	The squirrel hoards up nuts for the winter.
老鹰	lao3ying1抓住小鸡飞走了。	The hawk snatched the chicken and flew away.
底部	沿着屏幕的di3bu4排列所有最小化的应用程序。	Arrange the icon of all minimize application across the bottom of the screen.
集会	我认为这样的ji2hui4毫无价值。	I feel that such gatherings are worthless.
保龄球	bao3ling2qiu2道供bao3ling2qiu2滚动的木制表面的通道或球道	A wood-surfaced passageway or alley along which a bowling ball is rolled.
穆斯林	基督教教义和mu4si1lin2教义极为不同。	Christian and Muslim doctrines are very different.
叫声	不时有喜鹊的jiao4sheng1。	Now and than a magpie would call.
草原	cao3yuan2向四周伸展, 一望无际.	The prairies stretch on all sides as far as the eye can see.
坚果	jian1guo3种子生长在有硬壳的果实之内的种子，如花生、杏或核桃	A seed borne within a fruit having a hard shell, as in the peanut, almond, or walnut.
蜜	mi4蜂从花中啜mi4，离开时营营地道谢。	Bees sip honey from flowers and hum their thanks when they leave.
咖啡馆	ka1fei1guan3人手不够, 所以我们不得不排队等候。	The cafeteria is short handed so we'll have to wait in line.
延误	财务上出现问题yan2wu4了我们的建设计画。	Financial problems have set back our building programme.
一部分	老鼠把yi1 bu4fen5干酪啃吃了。	The mice have nibbled away part of the cheese.
水手	shui3shou3很利落地把绳子放出去了.	The sailor ran the line out neatly.
性骚扰	今天的报纸上有一篇关于办公室里的xing4sao1rao3的报道。	There is a report about a sexual harassment in the office on this newspaper.
去死	我与其嫁给他，倒不如qu4si3算了。	I may as well die as marry him.
痊愈	经过治疗他尚未quan2yu4。	He is in a bad way after treatment.
芹菜	这份色拉是由苹果、梨、土豆和qin2cai4做成的。	This salad is made of apple, pear, potato and celery.
撞击	波浪zhuang4ji1著港口的墙基.	Waves dashed against the harbour wall.
漏洞	破绽，失效可能导致其无效的法律文件的lou4dong4	A defect in a legal document that can render it invalid.
直线	zhi2xian4AB与zhi2xian4CD相交於E点.	The lines AB and CD intersect at E.
流浪汉	那个liu2lang4han4不得不乞求钱财。	The vagrant had to beg for money.
看守	那个犯人无人kan1shou3。	The prisoner was left unguarded.
棍子	把gun4zi5慢慢插进洞里.	Work the stick into the hole.
通向	他站在门口, 堵住tong1xiang4大厅的路.	He stood framed in the doorway to the hall.
男孩子	晚课后，nan2hai2zi5们去睡了。	The boys went to sleep after vespers.
忧愁	只要有更短而又直接通往灭亡的大道，这世上就可省却不少悲哀与you1chou2的吧。	If there only some shorter and more direct route to the devil, it would save an awful lot of sorrow and anxiety in this world.
轻微	qing1wei1的肿胀或肿块	A slight swelling or lump.
主教	给zhu3jiao4写信应该怎样称呼?	What form of address should one use when writing to a bishop?
上楼	她以轻快优雅的步子奔shang4lou2去。	She runs up the stairs with a light graceful step.
冷水	你洗个leng3shui3澡, 马上就清醒了.	A cold shower will soon wake you up.
莎士比亚	Sha1shi4bi3ya4的作品赋予他不朽的声名。	Shakespeare's works have given him immortality.
放出	他打开窗户，fang4chu1污浊的空气。	He opened the window to let out the foul air.
短期	duan3qi1内我们会赔钱，但从长远看，利润将会是丰厚的。	In the short term we will lose money, but in the long term the profits will be very large.
弯曲	这块木板有点wan1qu1。	There is a warp in the board.
视为	废气已过shi4wei2城市空气污染的原因。	Exhaust gas has been incriminated in air pollution in cities.
小便	｀xiao3bian4＇是｀排尿＇的委婉语.	`Pass water' is a euphemism for `urinate'.
国人	这座城市被占领使guo2ren2大为震惊。	The capture of the city shocked everyone in the country.
完工	他们建造一个新的国家公园的工程将于明年wan2gong1。	Their project to establish a new national park will be completed next year.
发霉	你闻到fa1mei2烟草的臭味了吗？	Do you smell the reek of stale tobacco?
转播	请你将诗人逝世的消息zhuan3bo1给公众好吗？	Could you relay the news of the poet's death out to the public?
水面	鱼浮到shui3mian4上捕捉昆虫。	Fish were surfacing to catch insects.
上诉	他同意我有权shang4su4.	He allowed that I had the right to appeal.
烤箱	我闻到煤气味了--kao3xiang1开著呢吧?	I can smell gas -- is the oven on?
珀	po4尔不得不在放弃工作和雇保姆之间作出选择。	Pearl had to choose between giving up her job or hiring a nanny.
出众	她的鲜红的帽子使她在姑娘们中间显得特别chu1zhong4。	Her bright red had set her apart from the other girls.
明媚	那是一个宁静、ming2mei4的早晨。	It was a beautiful morning, calm and serene.
滑冰	我不喜欢hua2bing1，而且冰又太薄。	I don't like skating, moreover, the ice is too thin.
注入	他的热情给公司zhu4ru4了新的生命。	His enthusiasm breathed new life into the company.
巫婆	wu1po2把王子变成了青蛙.	The witch changed the prince into a frog.
乐团	流行yue4tuan2迷跟随摇滚乐队巡回演出的迷恋者，尤指年轻女性	A fan, especially a young woman, who follows a rock group around on tours.
自行	开会时间将由班长zi4xing2决定。	The hours of the meetings will be fixed at the monitor's discretion.
天后	在办公室是熬过了平凡的一Tian1hou4，我精疲力竭了。	After an ordinary day at the office I feel completely washed up.
突发	痉挛一种由于紧张或寒冷而导致的肌肉tu1fa1性、无意识的、间歇性的紧缩，能导致剧烈的疼痛，通常发生在腿部或肩部	A sudden, involuntary, spasmodic muscular contraction causing severe pain, often occurring in the leg or shoulder as the result of strain or chill.
自首	那个凶手向司法部门投案zi4shou3。	The murderer delivered himself up to justice.
插入	他把两手cha1ru4衣袋里。	He thrust his hands into his pockets.
绵羊	虽然mian2yang2看起来很相像，但那位老人仍能一一区别。	Much as the sheep look alike, the old man can tell one from another.
挑起	他猛然从水中tiao3qi3鱼竿.	He jerked the fishing-rod out of the water.
改编	此剧系由一部小说gai3bian1而成。	The play has been adapted from a novel.
葫芦	它是由hu2lu5壳制成的。	It is made by skin of gourd.
预祝	我yu4zhu4大家岁首大吉。	I wish everybody good luck at the beginning of the year.
研究生	这位yan2jiu1sheng1得一个字一个字地读他导师写的东西。	The graduate student has to spell out what his tutor had written.
稀有	熊猫现在是xi1you3动物.	The panda is now a rare animal.
顺手	我有种不祥的感觉，今天干什么事都不会shun4shou3。	I have a nasty feeling that nothing's going to go right today!
使者	shi3zhe3被派去代表另一个人的利益完成某使命的人	An agent sent on a mission to represent or advance the interests of another.
看中	这幅画被他kan4zhong4了，所以他就把他买了下来。	The painting took his fancy, so he bought it.
夜幕	我们在ye4mu4掩护下行进.	We travelled under cover of darkness.
大军	不断增长的失业da4jun1引起了这名经济学家的关注。	The increasing army of the unemployed has attracted the attention of the economist.
可信	他的忠诚是ke3xin4的。	His faithfulness can be trusted.
肿	他眼皮zhong3了.	His eyelid is swollen.
风筝	我遥望天空，只见feng1zheng5越来越小。	I looked up into the sky and saw the kite become smaller and smaller.
溜走	听我说－－他背着他的亲友们liu1zou3了。	Mind what I say-he has given his relatives the slip.
沿途	教授心不在焉地yan2tu2瞎遛.	The professor bumbled absent-mindedly along the road.
创建	每次chuang4jian4或更改一个条目时，会自动按字母顺序排列。	It is automatically alphabetized every time an entry is created or changed.
叹	他绝望地tan4了口气。	He sighed with despair.
枪声	qiang1sheng1把马吓惊了.	The horse bolted in terror at the sound of the gun.
亲友	如果这种婚姻出自一个女人的自愿选择，甚至是不顾qin1you3的劝告而选择的，那么就让她自己去品尝这枚果实的滋味吧。	But this never fails, if the bad husbands were of their own choosing, against their friends consent; for then they will be sure to make good their own folly.
都会	国际象棋的各种走法你du1hui4吗?	Do you know all the possible moves in chess?
监管	市政官古罗马民选的行政官，负责公共事务及游艺活动并且jian1guan3市场、粮食及用水供应	An elected official of ancient Rome who was responsible for public works and games and who supervised markets, the grain supply, and the water supply.
铭记	那可怕的情景ming2ji4在他的记忆里。	The terrible scene was engraved on his memory.
心胸	鄙俗的xin1xiong1不宽大的	Lacking liberal culture.
着实	他用皮带把那个孩子zhuo2shi2打了一顿。	He gave the boy a real belting.
砰	他peng1的一声盖上了盖子.	He slammed the lid down.
有机	you3ji1氯一种含氯的碳氢化合物杀虫农药，如滴滴涕杀虫剂	Any of various hydrocarbon pesticides, such as DDT, that contain chlorine.
村民	cun1min2们撑起摇摇欲坠的茅棚。	The villagers shored up sagging huts.
入座	观众必须于序曲演奏前ru4zuo4。	The audience must be in their seats before the overture.
幽默感	我喜欢你的you1mo4gan3。	I like your sense of humor.
当局	dang1ju2是否已得知（此事）?	Have the authorities been notified (of this)?
微妙	暗示，影射词句中的不直接的或wei1miao4的，通常贬损的含义；暗示	An indirect or subtle, usually derogatory implication in expression; an insinuation.
累计	某个具体事件发生次数的lei3ji4总数，作为事实记录保存。	The cumulative total of the number of times a specific event occurs, kept as a factual record.
门外	在重要的节日, 人们把国旗悬挂在men2 wai4。	People hang national flags out on important holidays.
疫苗	这种yi4miao2用以为全体居民预防传染病.	The vaccine was used to protect the whole population against infection.
时速	这种新型号赛车於道路测试中shi2su4达100英里.	The new sports model achieved 100 miles an hour in road tests.
鸡汤	我们喝了一些ji1tang1。	We had some chicken soup.
差异	他的意见和我的意见没多大cha1yi4。	His opinion doesn't differ much from mine.
下令	我不xia4ling4就藏著别动.	Stay hidden until I give the word.
惊慌	这消息使我大为jing1huang1.	This news fills me with alarm.
解答	你能jie3da2那个问题真是聪明。	It was clever of you to solve the problem.
逃犯	越狱的tao2fan4已经再次被警方抓获。	The escaped convict has been caught by the police again.
泄漏	秘密一直没有xie4lou4。	The secret endured.
轨迹	抛物线到一固定直线和不在直线上某一固定点等距的点的gui3ji4所形成的平面曲线	A plane curve formed by the locus of points equidistant from a fixed line and a fixed point not on the line.
公事	你到伦敦来的目的是为了要看望家人还是为了gong1shi4？	Did you come to London for the purpose of seeing your family, or for business purposes?
付给	他以一张欠条代替现金fu4gei3我们。	He gave us an I.O.U. in lieu of cash.
勾搭	gou1da5上的人随便结识的陌生人，通常是在期望性关系中结识的人	A stranger with whom casual acquaintance is made, usually in anticipation of sexual relations.
下水道	大雨过后，xia4shui3dao4溢出水来。	The drains overflowed after the heavy rain.
出头	今天气温有多少度? 五十几度（不到六十度[五十度chu1tou2]）.	How warm is it today? It's in the (high/low) fifties.
破裂	她是一个po4lie4家庭的产儿.	She is the product of a broken home.
贩毒	警方在调查瞒税案件时意外地发现了一个fan4du2集团.	Police investigating tax fraud stumbledacross a drugs ring.
挥手	她不耐烦地hui1shou3让他们走开.	She waved them away impatiently.
猎物	饥饿的狮子撕碎了lie4wu4。	The ravenous lion tore the quarry.
溃疡	我的口腔出现了kui4yang2。	My mouth has an ulcer.
果冻	我忍不住常哼那支难听的guo3dong4广告歌。	I can't stop humming that awful jelly jingle.
棘手	这是个ji2shou3的问题。	It's a thorny subject.
不理	我恳求他，他连理都bu4li3。	He was deaf to my supplication.
镑	价格的起点是五bang4。	Prices start at￡5.
缩	她一见到蛇就往后suo1。	She recoiled at the sight of the snake.
演说	一名新教徒向人群发表了yan3shuo1。	A Protestant delivered a speech to the crowd.
疏散	城市遭到轰炸时, 儿童都shu1san4到乡下去了.	The children were evacuated to the country when the city was being bombed.
时时	警方shi2shi2警戒终有所获。	Police's vigilance was eventually rewarded.
航	远洋hang2路总是很繁忙.	The ocean lanes are always busy.
小提琴	她拉xiao3ti2qin2只是为了好玩。	He plays the violin for the fun of it.
小鸡	我饲养了12只xiao3ji1。	I had bred a dozen of chickens.
哑	她生来即ya3.	She's been dumb from birth.
自负	读者可以感觉到她文章中的狂妄zi4fu4令人反感.	Readers may find the pretension and arrogance of her style irritating.
顺着	做饭的味道shun4zhe5走廊飘过来。	Cooking smells wafted along the hall.
输给	在数据保密学中，通过合法访问数据的进程将数据传shu1gei3未授权的用户的过程。例如，编译程序在编译期间便可能泄漏专用程序。	In data security, the transmission of data to unauthorized users by processes with legitimate access to data. A compiler, for example, could leak a proprietary program whilst it is being compiled.
包扎	伤口用绷带bao1za1着。	The wound was bound up by bandage.
破烂	这间屋子里放了一堆奇形怪状的po4lan4家具。	There is an odd assemblage of broken bits of furniture in this room.
戴上	她dai4shang5墨镜以防强光的照射。	She put on dark glasses as a protection against the strong light.
丢弃	这家公司廉价出售略好一些的次品，但将大多数次品diu1qi4。	The factory sells some of its better rejects cheaply, but it throws most of the rejects away.
首领	造反派领袖与警察shou3ling3秘密会见。	The rebel leader meet the chief of police in secret.
信件	他已经收到了一大批xin4jian4。	He has received a swarm of letters.
坠落	模型飞机失控zhui4luo4下来。	The model plane got out of control and crashed.
防水	橡胶鞋是fang2shui3的。	Rubber boots are impervious to water.
动摇	什么也dong4yao2不了他要当律师的决心。	Nothing can weaken his resolve to become a lawyer.
精明	她由于投资jing1ming2而积蓄了一笔财产。	By investing wisely she accumulated a fortune.
路易	法国玛丽安东妮皇后是Lu4yi4十六的妻子。	Queen Marie Antoinette of France was the wife of Louis the 16th.
松开	你的一个扣子song1kai1了。	One of your buttons is undone.
大米	我们主要的出口货是da4mi3.	Our main export is rice.
好坏	我们可以通过比较来分辨hao3-huai4。	We can only tell good from bad by comparison.
裁决	他对那个罪犯做出了cai2jue2。	He passed judgement on the guilty man.
发条	他将钟表里的fa1tiao2取了出来，可现在装上不了。	He took the spring out of the clock but now he can't get it back.
来往	我们得想个办法阻止他和她lai2wang3。	We must stop him from seeing her somehow.
难关	他可以招摇撞骗闯过任何nan2guan1。	He could bluff his way through any difficulty.
体制	有五个国家实施这种ti3zhi4.	The system operates in five countries.
男子汉	你是nan2zi3han4还是胆小鬼?	Are you a man or a mouse (ie brave or cowardly)?
苛刻	如果你从那个坏蛋那里借债，可以肯定他会十分ke1ke4。	If you borrow from the scoundrel, you may be sure he'll demand his pound of flesh.
太平	tai4ping2洋是一片广大的水域。	The Pacific Ocean is a vast expanse of water.
除此之外	chu2ci3zhi1wai4，她还有五顶别的帽子。	She has five other hats besides this.
罗斯	伊卡Luo2si1代达Luo2si1的儿子，他乘着他父亲做的人工翅膀逃离克里特时，由于离太阳太近以致粘翅膀用的蜡溶化了，而掉进了爱琴海	The son of Daedalus who, in escaping from Crete on artificial wings made for him by his father, flew so close to the sun that the wax with which his wings were fastened melted, and he fell into the Aegean Sea.
自大	骄傲zi4da4是他的一个缺点.	Arrogance is one of his less attractive characteristics.
歌迷	流行歌星总是抱怨他们受到ge1mi2的包围。	Pop stars are always moaning about being mobbed by their fans.
护送	军舰将hu4song4船队.	Warships will accompany the convoy.
饮用	这水不宜yin3yong4。	The water is unfit for drinking.
外边	我们在图书馆wai4bian5见面.	Let's meet outside the library.
替身	拍摄危险的场景时, 这位大明星有个ti4shen1.	Another man stands in for the big star in the dangerous scenes.
暴君	我们的人民正在bao4jun1的统治下受苦。	Our people are suffering at the hands of an oppressor.
动听	这演说很dong4ting1，可是没什么内容。	It's a clever speech, but there was no real meat in it.
解说	导游在旅游车的前部向游客作连续的现场jie3shuo1。	The tour guide give a running commentary from the front of the coach.
悲痛	她去世後全家人极为bei1tong4.	Her death was a great distress to all the family.
老爷	这一切都是如此；但这件事的重要性如何呢，lao3ye5？	All this is so; but what of this, my lord?
防护	罩，fang2hu4罩用于脸或头的保护性覆盖物	A protective covering for the face or head.
晚间	这里wan3jian1没有什麽活动的迹象.	There are few signs of life here in the evenings.
进度	老板对他缓慢的jin4du4不满意。	His boss was dissatisfied with his tardy progress.
复合	fu4he2构词法将单个字组成fu4he2词的形式	The formation of compounds from separate words.
环绕	山顶上薄雾huan2rao4。	Mist wreathed the hilltops.
打劫	新闻——当有人咬狗、或者da3jie2酒店之时。	News- when a man bite a dog or rob a hotel.
共产党	CPC是中国gong4chan3dang3的英文名称缩写。	CPC stands for the Communist Party of China.
众生	她倾倒zhong4sheng1, 他是其中之一.	He is one of her many conquests.
处方	医生开chu3fang1给病人配药。	The doctor dispensed a prescription to his patient.
无谓	你们wu2wei4将友情保密--其实已尽人皆知了.	It's pointless trying to keep your friendship secret it's common knowledge already.
热带	西洋樱草生长于re4dai4国家吗？	Does cowslip grow in tropic countries?
雨水	农作物需要yu3shui3。	The crops need rain.
进程	在战争前那些美好的岁月里，似乎没有任何东西能打破我们平静的生活jin4cheng2。	It seemed nothing could disturb the even tenor of our existence in those happy prewar days.
瞎子	有人看见那xia1zi5横过街道。	The blind man was seen cross the street.
重要性	她不明白作记录的zhong4yao4xing4。	She is rather dim about the importance of keeping records.
侦察	在师主力部队之前先行派出装甲车去zhen1cha2敌军的活动。	Armoured cars were sent ahead of the main body of the division lo spot enemy troop movements.
消磨	正如铁锈会腐蚀铁一样，沉溺资产阶级生活方式会xiao1mo2掉一个人的革命意志。	Just as rust eats away iron, indulgence in bourgeois ways of life may eat away one's revolutionary will.
撕裂	就连你所能想到的最壮的人也不能光用手就将木头si1lie4。	The strongest man (that) you can think of cannot tear the log apart with bare hands.
勃	喂，鲍bo2。是的，这是因为线路不好。我再说大一点声音。好些了吗？	Oh, hello, Bob. Yes, the line is not very good. I'll speak a bit louder. Is that any better?
交出	第三天，他们就jiao1chu1了两万箱鸦片。	On the third day, they handed over20000 chests of opium.
点火	她在当地的旅馆询问打听，得知罗切斯特太太在一天夜间dian3huo3烧着了房子。	Making inquiries at the local inn, she discovers that Mrs. Rochester one night succeeded in setting the house on fire.
纯净	我们必须确保饮用水的chun2jing4。	We must ensure the purity of drinking water.
巨型	大虾；ju4xing2喷气式飞机	Jumbo shrimp; a jumbo jet.
背面	照片bei4mian4衬上了一层纸板.	The photograph was backed with cardboard.
霜	挡风玻璃上结了shuang1.	The windscreen was covered with frost.
仙境	这个小村庄美如xian1jing4。	This village is as beautiful as the fairyland.
图纸	他把档案翻了一遍，最后才找到tu2zhi3。	He hunted through the files till he found the blueprint.
错觉	你是那麽想的吗? 纯粹是cuo4jue2!	You think that, do you? Pure illusion!
进出	中立船证由联盟的外国政府颁发给船只的一种官方文件，尤指战时授权中立商船在特定水城内自由jin4-chu1和航行的文件	An official document issued by an allied foreign government to a ship, especially a neutral merchant ship in time of war, authorizing it to enter and travel through certain waters freely.
轰炸	hong1zha4持续不断地进行著.	The bombardment continued without cessation.
外形	普罗特斯一个能任意改变自己wai4xing2的海神	A sea god who could change his shape at will.
住房	有许许多多人需要新的zhu4fang2.	There are hundreds (of people) (ie very many) who need new housing.
脱身	对不起，我来晚了。刚才我在开会，不能tuo1shen1。	I'm sorry I'm late; I was at a meeting and couldn't get away.
网址	说到网络，它们都有一个wang3zhi3，“site”指的是一个场所，而wang3zhi3就是每一台上网电脑所在的地址。	And on the Web, there are Websites. A""site"" is a place, and so a Website. And each site had its address.
碰头	天花板很低, 留神别peng4tou2.	Mind you don't bump your head on the low ceiling.
柠檬汁	瓶装ning2meng2zhi1可不行－－你得用真货。	Bottled lemon juice is no good you must use the real thing.
没完没了	我得听他那些mei2wan2-mei2liao3的牢骚.	I had to listen to a long recital of all his complaints.
大规模	中国着手进行da4gui1mo2的改革。	China embark on a massive programme of reform.
光棍	他们三人彼此相处愉快；一个已婚，一个仍是guang1gun4，而另一个则已有了女友。	They three get along well with one another; one is married, another is still a bachelor, and the other has a girl friend.
六十	liu4shi2岁时, 他开始学俄语。	At the age of sixty he took up the study of Russian.
猎	有些lie4获的飞禽一直保存到开始变质才烹制.	Some game-birds are kept until they are high before cooking.
瑟	据悉，在审理戈蒂时，格拉se4对联邦调查局、检察官、被告律师以及媒体毫不客气。他打了好几通电话给塞申斯，要他必须查出《每日新闻》的消息来源。	Glasser, who rode roughshod over the FBI, prosecutors, defense lawyers and the press during the Gotti trial, made a series of telephone calls to Sessions demanding that the sources for The News story be found, sources said.
浓度	请把面粉和牛奶调至恰当的nong2du4。	Please mix the flour and milk to the right consistency.
担当	我们可暂时dan1dang1这项工作。	We could undertake the work for the time being.
废弃	这一设计图纸还未画出就被认为不实用而遭fei4qi4。	The design is scrubbed at the drawing board stage as being impractical.
丰年	feng1nian2时人人都吃得饱。	In years of plenty everyone has plenty to eat.
玫瑰花	mei2gui5hua1正在盛开。	The roses are blooming!
神经质	他有点shen2jing1zhi4，但他的妻子是一个非常稳重的人。	He is a bit neurotic, but his wife is a very stable person.
称霸	毫无疑问的他是cheng1ba4日本的高尔夫球手。	He is, without doubt, the greatest golfer in Japan.
书房	在这些孩子的眼里, 父亲的shu1fang2是最神圣的地方.	To the children, their father's study was the holy of holies.
年老	他退休后觉得自己nian2lao3无用了。	When he retired he felt that he had outlived his usefulness.
漂泊	piao1bo2数年后，他定居了下来。	He settled down after years of roaming.
共和党	美国的主要政党是民主党和Gong4he2dang3.	The main political parties in the United States are the Democrats and the Republicans.
物种	污染对这一wu4zhong3的继续生存造成了威胁。	Pollution poses a threat to the continued existence of this species.
可贵	【谚】井干方知水ke3gui4。	We never know the value of water till the well is dry.
加重	随着病情jia1zhong4，她的身体日渐衰弱。	She weakened as the illness grew worse.
军士	jun1shi4长命令士兵靠拢.	The sergeant-major ordered the men to close up.
光顾	我们逐一guang1gu4了城里所有的酒店.	We did/went the rounds of all the pubs in town.
换取	汽车修理厂给我５英镑折价huan4qu3我的汽车旧电池，这使我比较容易接受得买一个新电池的事实。	The garage gave me five pounds for trading in my old car battery, which took the sting of having to buy a new one.
煤气	这个城镇mei2qi4供应得很好。	We are well served with gas in this town.
斗士	任何谬论都拥有拥护它的dou4shi4。	Every absurdity have a champion to defend it.
蠢事	是什麽促使你做出这等chun3shi4来的?	What induced you to do such a stupid thing?
露营	男孩子们已决定下个星期去lu4ying2。	The boys have decided to go camping next week.
点头	她dian3tou2表示赞成.	She nodded her approval.
胡闹	别hu2nao4了，过来给我帮个忙。	Stop fucking around and come and give me a hand.
取暖	推销员竭力怂恿我, 说可以节省一大笔qu3nuan3费用.	The salesman tried to lead me on with talk of amazing savings on heating bills.
掉头	这种汽车可以在自身长度范围内diao4tou2.	This car will turn in its own length.
头衔	女王将爵士tou2xian2授予几位杰出人士.	The Queen conferred knighthoods on several distinguished men.
坐标	在计算机图形学中，以常数值乘以图象的zuo4biao1来放大或缩小全部或部分显示图象。	In computer graphics, to enlarge or reduce all or part of a display image by multiplying their coordinate by constant values.
星期日	xing1qi1ri4是我休息的日子。	Sunday is my rest day.
穿衣	chuan1yi1随便，穿着邋遢	Casual or lounging attire.
富豪	fu4hao2，政治家在商业或政治上获得杰出成绩而闻名的人	One who is known for achieving excellent results, as in business or politics.
寓意	该书的结尾yu4yi4乐观.	The book ended on an optimistic note.
狩猎	戴安娜在希腊罗马神话中是shou4lie4女神。	Diana is the goddess of hunting in Greek and Latin mythology.
用餐	培养儿童yong4can1时举止得体是很困难的。	It's hard to train children to behave well at the table.
不怕	许多伟人曾经是贫苦、不足轻重的小孩。好汉bu4 pa4出生贱。	Many great men were once poor, unimportant boys. Great oaks form little acorn grow.
光阴	这个浪荡子开始后悔他虚度了guang1yin1。	The vagabond began to regret his waste of time.
安眠药	盐酸氟胺安定商标名，用于为失眠而指定的an1mian2yao4	A trademark used for a hypnotic drug prescribed for insomnia.
一块	请递给我yi1kuai4方糖。	Please pass me a cube of sugar.
头皮	她感到tou2pi2上被扎了一下.	She felt a pricking on her scalp.
爱国	打著ai4guo2的旗号犯下的罪行。	Crimes committed under cover of patriotism.
农夫	nong2fu1正在用轭把牛套到犁上。	The farmer was yoking his oxen to a plough.
画廊	这个hua4lang2是中世纪艺术的宝库。	The gallery is a treasure trove of medieval art.
开花	等所有的植物都kai1hua1时，花园会显得非常漂亮。	The garden will look very beautiful when all the plants are in flower.
费劲	用这样一把旧铁锹挖地真fei4jin4。	It's hard to work this soil with such an old spade.
与此同时	yu3ci3tong2shi2，我的舌头忙着寻找我拔掉牙的那个洞。	Meanwhile, my tongue was busy searching out of the hole where the tooth had been.
二月	er4yue4是一年的第二个月份.	February is the second month of the year.
缠绵	她chan2mian2地思念着心爱的人儿。	She lingered on the thought of her loved ones.
隐隐	喷射机的黑色轮廓在雾中yin3yin3显现。	The dark outline of a jet loomed through the mist.
中部	zhong1bu4地区一个国家或地区的zhong1bu4或内陆	The middle or interior part of a country or region.
共享	化合价，原子价原子或原子团与其它原子反映时由所失、增加成gong4xiang3的电子数目决定的化合能力	The combining capacity of an atom or a radical determined by the number of electrons that it will lose, add, or share when it reacts with other atoms.
万能	我对wan4neng2的上帝发誓我要说真话。	I swear by Almighty God that I will tell the truth.
纪念品	她送我的ji4nian4pin3很小而且不值钱。	The keepsake she gave me is small and not very costly.
过后	假期guo4hou4，我觉得健康恢复得相当不错。	I feel quite restored to health after my holiday.
魂	灵hun2出窍，亡hun2显现活着的人在其临死前出现的作为预兆的鬼hun2	An apparition of a living person that appears as a portent just before that person's death.
眼下	yan3xia4物价高得上了天.	Prices are sky-high at the moment.
国产	所用的仪器都是guo2chan3的。	The instruments used are all home-made.
阿根廷	史密斯先生将出任A1gen1ting2大使的命令已经下达。	The decree has gone forth that Mr.Smith is to be the new ambassador to Argentina.
电击	任何人碰到那根电线都会遭到严重的dian4ji1。	Anyone touching that wire could get badly shocked.
歌剧	我不爱看ge1ju4，喜欢听室内乐。	I don't like opera; chamber music is more my style.
理发店	我昨天在li3fa4dian4里理了发。	I had my hair cut at the barber's yesterday.
人命	飞机的航线互相交错铸成ren2ming4惨祸.	The flight paths of the aeroplanes crossed, with fatal results.
击球	哈里以辉煌的１１０ji1qiu2率给本赛季划上了句号。	Harry ended this season with a splendid batting average of110.
遥控器	yao2 kong4 qi4上的Here／There按钮可以控制任何一端的摄像机。	The here/there button on the remote control which side camera you are controlling.
错乱	得到她丈夫的死讯, 她神经cuo4luan4了。	At the news of her husband's death, she went to pieces.
诗歌	他抑扬顿挫地朗诵shi1ge1。	He read the poems with cadence.
像样	这家医院没有xiang4yang4的设备.	The hospital has no decent equipment.
偷窃	你在教唆tou1qie4.	You are abetting theft.
比萨	bi3sa4在（佛罗伦萨的）西边.	Pisa is to the west (of Florence).
主力	英格兰队某些zhu3li4运动员受伤而使攻球削弱.	England's attack has been weakened by the injury of certain key players.
暴风雨	bao4feng1yu3开始减弱了。	The storm has been remitted.
庆典	村子的礼堂专作举行qing4dian3和会议之用.	The village hall is given over to civic functions and meetings.
奉	卫兵们feng4令不得离开岗位.	The guards were ordered not to leave their posts.
减速	回旋使一个做直线运动的物体jian3su4、停滞或倒转的一种旋转，尤指一个球	A spin that tends to retard, arrest, or reverse the linear motion of an object, especially of a ball.
永生	曾经认识，他的面容让人yong3sheng1难忘	Once known, his face is never forgotten.
漂	他们打扮得piao4piao4亮亮去参加聚会。	They all spruced up for the party.
刺伤	我觉得你嘲笑他说英语的方式ci4shang1了他的自尊心。	I think you hurt his pride by laughing at the way he speaks English.
天哪	tian1 na5，他又在絮絮不休地谈他感兴趣的问题。有没有法子使他闭嘴？	Oh dear, he's off again on his favourite subject. Isn't there any way of stopping him?
人权	北约对这个独立的国家的侵略是对ren2quan2的野蛮侵犯。	NATO's invasion of this independent country is a brutal violation of human rights.
住所	衣、 食、 zhu4suo3是生活的基本必需品.	Food, clothing and shelter are all basic necessities of life.
世故	幼稚的，天真的不shi4gu5的，天真的	Lacking sophistication or worldly experience; naive.
露面	她自从患病以来第一次公开lou4mian4.	She was appearing in public (ie in front of people in general) for the first time since her illness.
闪光	街道在雨水中shan3guang1。	The street glistened in the rain.
时分	黄昏shi2fen1她常常坐在花园里。	She often sits in the garden at twilight.
路易斯	Lu4yi4si1制造的局面使得该政府首脑不仅能够在竞选中弄虚作假，而且还可以肆意侵吞联邦公款，除掉可能的竞争对手。	Lewis had created a situation whereby it was possible for the man at the top to fiddle elections, embezzle union funds and do away with potential rivals.
海角	莱思角加拿大纽芬兰省东南部一hai3jiao3，位于亚法隆半岛沿岸	A promontory of southeast Newfoundland, Canada, on the coast of the Avalon Peninsula.
揭开	科学家已经jie1kai1了原子的秘密。	Scientists have unlocked the secret of the atom.
老年人	生活费用上升，lao3nian2ren2最受影响。	Old people are hardest hit by the rising cost of living.
不当	我一看到她的反应就意识到我说话bu4dang4.	I realized that I had said the wrong thing when I saw her reaction.
提及	《圣经》中有ti2ji2英国人的话：“柔顺的人们是有福的，因为他们将会继承大地”。	The English are mentioned in the Bible: Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.
轮到	lun2dao4我照顾婴儿了。	I took my turn to look after the baby.
炉	他用煤气lu2做饭。	He cooks his meal with a gas stove.
伸展	这个花园直shen1zhan3到河岸.	The garden extends to the river bank.
苏打	他要了两杯酸橙su1da2汽水。	He ordered two lime sodas.
鬼混	他非但不用功，反而到处gui3hun4。	Far from working hard, he played around.
鲸鱼	那条jing1yu2不住地用尾巴击水.	The whale thrashed the water with its tail.
纳税人	这个问题是否从na4shui4ren2的立场上考虑过?	Has the matter been viewed from the taxpayers' standpoint?
洗碗	你敢逃避xi3wan3碟!	Don't you dare try and get out of the washing-up!
全城	quan2cheng2沉浸在节日的气氛中。	The whole city was immersed in a festival atmosphere.
宣称	今晨发布的政府公报xuan1cheng1....	A government communique, issued this morning, states that...
观赏	我们喜欢guan1shang3初升太阳的灿烂光辉。	We enjoy seeing the glorious beams of the rising sun.
传输	数据通信中，由接收方向发送方传送应答字符作为肯定回答的chuan2shu1过程。	In data communications, the transmission by a receiver of acknowledge characters as an affirmative response to a sender.
放置	露头砖垂直而不是平行于墙根fang4zhi4的砖块	A brick laid across rather than parallel with a wall.
境地	诱捕一种手段，用以把…引入危险的jing4di4	A means used to mislead or lead into danger.
低级	他想让我接受贿赂--我但愿我决不至於做出这种di1ji2的事.	He tried to make me accept a bribe I hope I would never stoop so low.
椰子	她把ye1zi5劈开了.	She split open the coconut.
脚下	你必须留心jiao3xia4才不会跌下去。	You must watch your step so as not to fall down.
自卫	她示范最有效的zi4wei4方法.	She demonstrated how best to defend oneself.
养老金	yang3lao3jin1的多少取决於为公司服务年限的长短.	Size of pension depends on length of service with the company.
犯法	窝藏罪犯是fan4fa3的。	Harboring criminals is an offence in law.
浮	鱼fu2到水面上捕捉昆虫。	Fish were surfacing to catch insects.
天分	他很有tian1fen4，但对选择的工作该怎样处理，他仍得好好学习。	He has natural ability, but has yet to learn the mechanics of his chosen work.
信徒	xin4tu2们都赶往清真寺。	The devout were all hurrying to the mosque.
十全十美	我还在学习, 别指望我shi2quan2-shi2mei3!	I'm still only a learner, so don't expect perfection!
河边	这家公司希望把新工厂设在he2bian1。	The company wished to locate its new factory beside the river.
开端	【谚】良好的kai1duan1，是成功的一半。	Well begun is half done.
预示	这yu4shi4我们陷入危险。	It portends we are in danger.
阵亡	许多士兵在内战中zhen4wang2。	Many soldiers went under in the Civil War.
越发	反动派越是横行霸道，就yue4fa1激起更强烈的反抗。	The more the reactionaries lash out, the more resistance they provoke.
波兰	马林诺团体斯基，布伦尼斯洛·卡斯佩1884－1942Bo1lan2裔英国人类社会学家，坚持认为习俗和信仰具有特定的社会功能	Polish-born British anthropologist who maintained that customs and beliefs have specific social functions.
罐头	我喜欢吃金枪鱼guan4tou5。	I like to eat tinned tuna fish.
蛋黄	dan4huang2是鸡蛋中的黄色部分.	The yolk is the yellow part in an egg.
千年	人类经数qian1nian2才文明开化.	The civilization of mankind has taken thousands of years.
存活	为了cun2huo2植物必须有氧气	Plants must have oxygen in order to live.
忘却	为了把烦恼wang4que4，他让自己忙于花园的工作。	To forget his trouble, he busied himself in his garden .
餐具	他想在can1ju4室里找到一些酒。	He wanted to find some wine in the pantry.
劫持	他们计划jie2chi2一架飞机。	They planned to hijack a plane.
摇头	他摇了yao2tou2表示反对。	He shook his head in disapproval.
碰撞	这条船的侧面peng4zhuang4了港口岸壁.	The ship hit the harbour wall broadside on.
西服	我没有适合那种场合的礼服，也许穿深色xi1fu2还行吧？	I have no formal clothes for the occasion. Perhaps I can get by in a dark suit?
半场	上ban4chang3结束时比分为2比2.	The score at half-time was 2-2.
安然	他闪身躲过了滚落的岩石，an1ran2脱险了。	He dodged the falling rock and escaped unhurt.
奇异	怪念头奇怪的、qi2yi4的或顽固的想法	An odd, whimsical, or stubborn notion.
受益	这项活动尤其会使黑人妇女shou4yi4，对她们来说高等教育机会已被极大地限制	The program will particularly benefit Black women, for whom higher education opportunities have been severely limited.
甲板	我的舱位在E层jia3ban3.	My cabin is on E deck.
不适	我胸部bu4shi4。	I have a complaint of the chest.
上头	但它不想某些酒那样shang4tou5。	But it do not go to the head as some drinks do.
放肆	那些部队进入敌人领土所表现出来的fang4si4令人厌恶。	The license shown by the troops when they entered enemy territory disgusted everyone.
养活	她要yang3huo5一家人.	She's got a family to feed.
人手	请务必使这张便条落到可靠的ren2shou3里。	Please see that this note gets into the right hands.
警戒	核武装轰炸机在危机期间负责jing3jie4	Nuclear-armed bombers were put on alert during the crisis.
偏离	某数值pian1li2参考值的一种系统偏差。	A systematic deviation of a value from a reference value.
磨练	考验严峻的考验，如对耐心或信念的考验；mo2lian4	A severe test, as of patience or belief; a trial.
无礼	向人吐唾沫是非常粗暴wu2li3的。	It's very rude to spit at someone.
打火机	他问我身上是否带着da3huo3ji1。	He asked me if I had a cigarette lighter with me.
替补	替捕的一垒安打；第二垒ti4bu3偷击	A pinch single; a pinch steal of second base.
权限	quan2xian4，职权这样授予的权力	The authority so granted.
矿	煤、石油和kuang4产品都是工业原料。	Coal, oil and mineral are the raw material of industry.
从中	商店趁一时缺货而提高价格cong2zhong1获利。	The shop is cashed in on temporary shortage by raising price.
铅	qian1是重金属.	Lead is a heavy metal.
托马斯	今天，Tuo1ma3si1·莫尔爵士作为《乌托邦》的作者而留在人们的记忆之中。	Sir Thomas More is remembered today as the author of Utopia.
衫	这件羊毛shan1洗后会缩水吗？	Will this woolen sweater shrink when washed?
管制	在防空演习时对一切灯火都实行guan3zhi4。	All lights are blacked out during air defence exercises.
栏	在空白lan2中写上你的名字。	Write your name in the blank.
到场	大群的观众dao4chang3观看比赛。	A vast crowd turned out to watch the match.
百货	他在城里挨家挨户兜售日用bai3huo4.	He peddled small household articles around the town.
四月	他将于si4yue4三日来看你。	He will come to see you on the third of April.
大吃一惊	我正在成人学校补习法语，到时好让他们da4chi1-yi1jing1。	I'm brushing up on my French at adult school just to surprise them.
话说	他搜索枯肠找hua4shuo1.	He cast about desperately for something tosay.
班级	他在40 个人的ban1ji2里排第九名。	He took the ninth position in his class of forty.
点钟	婴儿在8dian3zhong1出生。	The baby was born on 8 o'clock.
私事	我有点si1shi4和你商量。	I have something personal to discuss with you.
全盛	罗马帝国在quan2sheng4时期几乎占据了整个欧洲。	At its zenith the Roman Empire covered almost the whole of Europe.
大于	这件事上，利远da4yu2弊。	The advantages far outweigh the disadvantages in this case.
如愿	将近一万名西方平民（多半是英国人和美国人）躲藏在被占领的科威特城。如果萨达姆能ru2yuan4，使他们落在他手里，他们将被指定为活靶，难逃浩劫。	Nearly10, 000 Western civilians, mostly British and American, are holed up in captured Kuwait City. If Saddam gets his hands on them, as he intends to, they are to be designated human targets and doomed.
泡汤	旅游公司的失误使我的假日pao4tang1了。	The travel company's failure bust up my holiday.
梯子	不应该在ti1zi5下面穿过, 人们都是这麽说说罢了.	It's just (a) superstition that you shouldn't walk under ladders.
奥运会	Ao4yun4hui4期间，旅馆房间很难找。	Hotel accommodation was scarce during the Olympic Games.
凳子	请挪过去点，你占了大半张deng4zi5啦！	Move over, please: you are taking up more than half the bench!
体操	我不喜欢ti3cao1.	I don't like gym.
改掉	她循循善诱地劝他gai3diao4坏脾气。	She coaxed him out of his bad temper.
新西兰	在英国食用的黄油多产自Xin1xi1lan2.	Much of the butter eaten in England comes from New Zealand.
海里	盛有核废料的密封容器被丢在hai3li3。	Sealed containers of nuclear waste have been dumped in the sea.
积	窗台上ji1了灰尘.	Dust had collected on the window-sill.
草地	但愿有cao3di4与小羊。	I wish there were meadows and lambs.
进城	从我搬jin4cheng2里以后，我有好几年没见过蚂蚱了。	I hadn't seen a grasshopper for years since I moved into the city.
工地	到gong1di4的所有参观者必须带上安全帽。	All visitors to the site must wear safety helmet.
冰冻	我们在上个bing1dong4期之後把管道用保温材料裹上了。	After the last freeze-up we put insulation round the pipes.
帐号	把它记在我的信用卡的zhang4hao4里。	Have it charged to my credit card.
站台	开往北京的火车将于半小时后从三zhan4tai2开出。	The train to Beijing will depart from platform 3 in half an hour.
净化	我们可以用蒸馏法使水jing4hua4。	We may purge water by distillation.
消遣	我带上一些轻松的读物乘火车时xiao1qian3.	I took some light reading (eg a thriller) for the train journey.
翻来覆去	我真希望我们能够看到更多新的电视节目，而不是fan1lai2-fu4qu4的那几个老节目。	I wish we could see more new programmes on television, not repeats all the time.
传出	自从某寄宿学校chuan2chu1有人吸毒之後, 高年级有几个男生已被开除.	Following reports of drug-taking at a boarding-school, several senior boys have been expelled.
拓荒者	美国的公共教育史起源于早期tuo4huang1zhe3的社会。	The history of public education in the United States dates from the society of the early pioneers.
乱动	别luan4dong4我桌上的文件。	Don't disturb the paper on my desk.
山谷	shan1gu3中薄雾袅袅.	Eddies of mist rose from the valley.
真人	人体模型如zhen1ren2大小的、全身或半身的人体模型，用于量试衣服是否合适或展示服装；人体模型	A life-size full or partial representation of the human body, used for the fitting or displaying of clothes; a dummy.
亲身	他先给我们讲了一个qin1shen1经历的故事，这样大家就谈了起来。	He led off the conversation by telling us a story of his personal experience.
关节	屈肌一块收缩时能弯曲身体的guan1jie2或四肢的肌肉	A muscle that when contracted acts to bend a joint or limb in the body.
礼仪	女王加冕li3yi2很隆重.	The Queen was crowned with much ceremony.
出面	我公司伦敦分公司向贵公司开chu1mian4额300，000元的汇票一张，兹同函奉上，请承兑后寄还为荷。	Enclosed we hand you a draft,$300,000, draw on you by our london house. kindly accept same and return.
外头	惟有疯狗与英国人会在中午的烈日之下跑到wai4tou5去。	Mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the mid-day sun.
交响曲	维拉罗伯斯，海特1887－1959巴西作曲家，他的作品受到巴西传统民间乐影响，包括jiao1xiang3qu3、歌剧及歌曲	Brazilian composer whose works, including symphonies, operas, and songs, were influenced by Brazilian folk traditions.
旺盛	他断断续续地同评论家们口诛笔伐，使得肝火wang4sheng4。	He kept the adrenalin flowing with off-and-on feuds with his critics.
映	落日把云霞ying4得通红。	The sunset reddened the clouds.
毁掉	若时机不当, 一言不慎, 可能hui3diao4整个计画.	One indiscreet remark at the wrong moment could ruin the whole plan.
基督徒	教皇是众多ji1du1tu2的宗教领袖.	The Pope is the spiritual leader of many Christians.
偷看	他tou1kan4我的论文时，我当场抓住了他。	I caught him peeping at my paper.
肉类	素食者所摄取的蛋白质不是来自rou4lei4而是来自近似rou4lei4的食物.	A vegetarian gets protein not from meat but from its analogues.
脸颊	他捏那孩子的lian3jia2玩.	He pinched the child's cheek playfully.
白费	过去的事哭也是bai2fei4力气。	It is no use crying about the past.
兰花	她在晚礼服上缀著一朵lan2hua1.	She wore a single orchid on her evening dress.
起火	两个棍棒相互摩擦能qi3huo5.	Friction between two sticks can create a fire.
抵抗力	这一策略旨在逐步削弱敌人的di3kang4li4.	The strategy was designed to wear down the enemy's resistance.
望远镜	她用wang4yuan3jing4向四周看.	She swivelled the telescope (round).
圈圈	她那一头波浪般的长发一簇簇一quan1quan5地散垂在肩上。	Her wavy hair fell in loose wisps and loops upon her shoulders.
已然	【谚】与其补救于yi3ran2，不如防止于未然。	Prevention is better than cure.
胜任	谁也不怀疑她能sheng4ren4教师工作。	No one doubts her competence as a teacher.
成绩单	从她的学习cheng2ji4dan1可看出她算术和生物成绩差.	Her school report shows that she is weak at/in arithmetic and biology.
基督教	圣诞节和复活节是Ji1du1jiao4的节日.	Christmas and Easter are Christian festivals.
编造	捏造，想象虚构的作品或托词，并不代表是真实的，而是被bian1zao4出来的	An imaginative creation or a pretense that does not represent actuality but has been invented.
橡胶	就是最佳质量的xiang4jiao1也会因老化而腐烂。	Even the best quality rubber will perish with age.
双重	他作曲家和指挥家的shuang1chong2身份使他非常繁忙。	His dual role as a composer and a conductor made him very busy.
山村	过去荒凉的shan1cun1已发展成为欣欣向荣的人民公社。	The once deserted mountain villages have grown into a flourishing people's commune.
公牛	gong1niu2怒吼起来.	The bull bellowed angrily.
上空	那些云彩在山顶shang4kong1停留不散.	Clouds have settled over the mountain tops.
祖宗	骡子既无足以自豪的zu3zong5，亦无可以寄托希望的子孙。	A mule have neither pride of ancestry nor hope of posterity.
有心	你显然you3xin1事, 何不一吐为快?	You're obviously worried about something; why not get it off your chest?
中场	演出中有一次zhong1chang3休息，让听众们稍事休息。	There is a break during the performance for the audience to take a rest.
大幅	她精心策画後, 谈妥了da4fu2增加工资的事.	By careful strategy she negotiated a substantial pay rise.
体质	他饥饿与疾病交加，ti3zhi4已削弱。	Hunger and disease had weakened his constitution.
火烧	一场huo3shao5毁了他开的店，他的事业就此完蛋。	His business was done in by a fire that burned down his store.
机制	我能使用文字处理机, 但不了解其运转ji1zhi4.	I can use a word processor but I don't understand its operation.
说笑	他对任何人都很拘谨，从不跟人shuo1xiao4。	He is very formal with everyone; he never joins in a laugh.
理查德	Li3cha2de2和戴维极力想把问题列入议程, 但遭多数票否决.	Richard and David tried to get the question put on the agenda but they were heavily outvoted.
摄影机	she4ying3ji1准备好了吗? 好, 开拍!	Cameras ready? OK, shoot!
贝多芬	bei4 duo1 fen1被认为是不朽的古典音乐大师.	Beethoven is regarded as one of the immortals of classical music.
徒步	正是设备的低劣才导致一些tu2bu4旅行者不愿继续攀登	Inferior equipment was precisely the reason some hikers refused to continue the climb.
高于	突出的gao1yu2所有其他的或比所有人都显著的；杰出的	Superior to or notable above all others; outstanding.
邮票	他收集的you2piao4是我的三倍还不止。	He has collected more than three times as many stamps as I (have).
串门	她来chuan4men2只是为了打发时间。	She stopped by just to pass the time of day.
转化	冷凝将气体或蒸汽zhuan3hua4成液体的过程	The process by which a gas or vapor changes to a liquid.
笼	鸟在long2中拍著翅膀.	The bird fluttered its wings in the cage.
波特	费尔菲尔德康涅狄格西南的一座城镇，跨长岛海峡，在布里奇bo1te4西南。于1639年建立，主要是住宅区，有多样化的轻工业。人口53，418	A town of southwest Connecticut on Long Island Sound southwest of Bridgeport. Settled in1639, it is mainly residential and has varied light industries. Population, 53,418.
店主	dian4zhu3收到了对损坏的赔偿。	The store owner received satisfaction for the damage.
抗争	弱者被逼太甚，也会进行kang4zheng1，你最好还是给她一条出路。	Even a worm will turn. You had better give her a way out.
小学生	xiao3xue2sheng1往往很钦佩老师.	Schoolchildren often have/get crushes on teachers.
尼斯	开普勒，约翰Ni2si11571－1630德国天文学家和数学家，被认为是现代天文学的奠基人，他创立了三大定律，说明行星围绕太阳转的理论	German astronomer and mathematician. Considered the founder of modern astronomy, he formulated three laws to clarify the theory that the planets revolve around the sun.
各个	这些白线把赛区分成ge4ge4部分.	White lines divide the playing area into sections.
迫	他做此事是为环境所po4。	He was forced by the circumstances to do this.
喷泉	她用手指在pen1quan2中玩水.	She dabbled her fingers in the fountain.
翻过	谁fan1guo4我的文件了？	Who's been rooting about among my papers?
性情	她xing4qing2非常文静.	She is possessed of a wonderfully calm temperament.
失效	许多旧的制度都已经shi1xiao4。	Many old rules are not in force any more.
奖项	贝西奖一种自1984年以来每年由“纽约市舞蹈剧院创作室”颁发的jiang3xiang4，为在舞蹈和表演艺术方面取得的成就而设立	An award given annually since1984 by the Dance Theater Workshop in New York City for achievement in dance and the performing arts.
返乡	去年我fan3xiang1探亲，惊讶地发现小村和村里的人都发生了变化。	Last year I returned home and was surprised to find both the village and the people completely changed.
赞扬	让我们来zan4yang2上帝吧。	Let us give praise to God.
许诺	他xu3nuo4的都是空话.	His promises were just so much meaningless talk.
对准	要照出清晰的照片，就要把焦点dui4zhun3物体。	Bring the object into focus if you want a sharp photograph.
耗子	hao4zi5在墙上啃了一个洞。	The rat gnawed a hole through the wall.
挺好	这些照片中的人物姿势都ting3hao3.	The subjects are well posed in these photographs.
闭嘴	天哪，他又在絮絮不休地谈他感兴趣的问题。有没有法子使他bi4zui3？	Oh dear, he's off again on his favourite subject. Isn't there any way of stopping him?
喷嚏	到处都是灰尘, 他不停地打著pen1ti4.	With all that dust about, he couldn't stop sneezing.
以内	她yi3nei4行的眼光看, 这幅画糟透了.	To her expert eye, the painting was terrible.
加利福尼亚	Jia1li4fu2ni2ya4有许多来自其他州的移民。	California has many immigrants from other states.
药片	她让我吃些yao4pian4以利睡眠.	She prescribed some pills to help me to sleep.
倾城	全市居民qing1cheng2而出迎接凯旋球队.	The city turned out to welcome back its victorious team.
认知	印刻作用，烙印社会性动物生命早期出现的ren4zhi1过程，通过与父母或一个其他角色模式的接触而形成的特别的行为方式	A learning process occurring early in the life of a social animal in which a specific behavior pattern is established through association with a parent or other role model.
挪威	Nuo2wei1人生活在比较寒冷的地区。	The Norwegians live in a comparatively cold zone.
珍	他zhen1视生命。	He holds life dear.
洞穴	小dong4xue2是唯一的避寒处。	A small cave was the only refuge from the cold.
记号	那个地方在地图上以十字形ji4hao5标出。	The place is marked on the map with a crossing.
知晓	玛丽错把老师的书拿回了家，第２天一早她便在无人zhi1xiao3的情况下将它归还了。	Mary took the teacher's book home by mistake, but early the morning she returned it with nobody the wiser.
烧伤	这种药膏能治疗轻微shao1shang1。	The salve will heal slight burns.
微小	wei1xiao3者wei1xiao3的或小型的人或物体	A very small person or thing.
修正	反对党已对议案提出几项xiu1zheng4.	The Opposition have tabled several amendments to the bill.
欢快	他用笛子吹奏了huan1kuai4的曲调。	He played a delightful melody on his flute.
飞越	回程用的时间比平时长, 因为飞机不能fei1yue4战区.	The journey back took longer than normal, because the plane could not overfly the war zone.
开胃	辣味的，kai1wei4的尝起来辛辣但美味的；佐料多的	Pleasantly pungent or tart in taste; spicy.
强度	渐强的在音强、力量或qiang2du4上逐渐增强的	Gradually increasing in volume, force, or intensity.
顶尖	人言沉默是金，但这世界出产的ding3jian1蠢才们则对这问题未见有话说过。	Silence is said to be golden, but the best fool the world has has ever produced nothing to say on the subject.
发狂	极度的痛苦使他fa1kuang2。	He was driven crazy by the extremity of pain.
追击	劫案发生後警方立即跟踪zhui1ji1.	After the robbery the police immediately gave chase.
考场	人生是一种考验，而这个世界就是kao3chang3。每一代都要面对一些问题－－可能是相同的问题－－只不过问题的形式不同。	Life is a test and this world a place of trial. Always the problems- or it may be the same problem will be presented to every generation in different forms.
建成	这张图显示这幢房子jian4cheng2后正面的外观。	This drawing shows what the front elevation of the house will look like when it is built.
改装	这机器是为水下使用而特别gai3zhuang1的。	This machine has been specially adapted for underwater use.
电动	我是用dian4dong4打字机打这封信的。	I did the letter on my electric typewriter.
遮住	密密的常春藤zhe1zhu4了这面墙.	Rampant ivy had covered the wall.
吉米	Ji2mi3还不能分辨颜色，他把紫色和蓝色搅混了。	Jimmy doesn't know colors yet; he mixes up purple with blue.
天长地久	他说tian1chang2-di4jiu3永远爱她。	He said he'd love her to the end of time.
食谱	早餐的shi2pu3上有燕麦粥吗?	Is/Are porridge oats on the breakfast menu?
暴徒	他在足球比赛结束以後受到一帮bao4tu2的殴打。	He is done over by a gang of thug after a football match.
每人	她给孩子们mei3ren2一美元。	She gave the boys a dollar apiece.
特有	英国习语，英国te4you3用词，英国式的语言现象英语，尤其是在英语口语中所te4you3的单词、短语或习惯用语；英国式语言现象	A word, a phrase, or an idiom peculiar to the English language, especially as spoken in England; a Briticism.
十字	在地图上, shi2zi4符号代表教堂.	On maps, a cross is the symbol for a church.
毕业生	他是医科bi4ye4sheng1。	He is a graduate in medicine.
赞赏	我们zan4shang3着壮丽的山景。	We admired the splendor of the mountain scenery.
在世	这个组织是zai4shi4界银行的赞助下办的。	The association is under the auspices of Word Bank.
爱意	他经常用充满ai4 yi4的语言谈论他的女朋友。	He often talks about his girlfriend in terms of love.
饭碗	朋友告诫他，干活加把劲，否则就会丢掉fan4wan3。	He got the straight tip from his friend-work harder, or you'll lose your job.
恶毒	他e4du2的表情吓坏了这个小女孩。	His venomous look terrified the little girl.
滥用	科学知识被lan4yong4于破坏和战争。	Scientific knowledge was perverted to help cause destruction and war.
锯	所有的树都已ju4成原木.	All the trees have been sawn up into logs.
震动	汽车停止时zhen4dong4了一下。	The car stopped with a jolt.
厚道	她为人hou4dao4、慷慨大方，倒也弥补了她偶尔发点儿脾气。	Her kindness and generosity cancel out her occasional flashes of temper.
恶棍	假使上天认为财富是有价值的东西的话，它就不会将之给予这样的一个e4gun4的吧。	If heaven had looked upon riches to be a valuable thing, it will not have given them to such a scoundrel.
工会	gong1hui4正酝酿著闹事.	Trouble is brewing in the trade unions.
同一	我们上学时在tong2yi1班.	We were in the same class at school.
协定	阴谋一种共同进行非法的、错误的或颠覆性活动的xie2ding4	An agreement to perform together an illegal, wrongful, or subversive act.
堵住	危险的礁石du3zhu4了航道。	Dangerous rocks shut up the passage.
击倒	他一记有力的左手拳将对手ji1dao3.	He knocked down his opponent with a powerful left.
全集	我只差一本书就可配齐狄更斯quan2ji2了。	I need one volume to complete my set of Dickens.
铐	那个犯人被手kao4kao4着。	The prisoner was fastened by a shackle.
心智	健康尤指身体或xin1zhi4的健康；免受疾病或反常影响的	Soundness, especially of body or mind; freedom from disease or abnormality.
降价	您既然不能jiang4jia4，那这笔交易不如就拉倒吧。	Since you cannot reduce the price, we may call off the deal(business) as well.
极为	车祸现场附近交通ji2wei2混乱。	Traffic was badly snarled up near the accident.
就此	我自觉无资格jiu4ci3问题发言.	I feel unqualified to speak on the subject.
置于	引出推论的表达推论的或zhi4yu2推论前面的，用来修饰词语	Expressing or preceding an inference. Used of a word.
大炮	这种da4pao4的威力很大。	The artillery did great execution.
审视	首先，我站在一个热闹的角落，仅仅是看着人们，试图以shen3shi4他们来理解他们生活的某些东西。	First, I stand at a busy corner, merely looking at people, trying by sight of them to understand something of their live.
前者	睿智与机灵不同，qian2zhe3可随着年龄增加。	Sagacity, unlike cleverness, may increase with age.
吵闹	chao3nao4的声音这样大，我怎能读书呢？	How can I read with all this row going on?
出游	班里所有的男孩都想陪这个漂亮的女孩一起chu1you2。	All the boys in the class want to go out with the pretty girl.
创造力	她觉得她的chuang4zao4li4难以发挥.	She felt her creativity was being strangled.
竞技	jing4ji4状态极佳的运动员	An athlete in excellent shape.
赛马	他们为sai4ma3设立了2000畿尼的奖金。	They had set a prize of 2000 gns for the horserace.
丹麦	在我们学校几乎没有人懂得Dan1mai4语。	Few people know Danish in our school.
二十多	一位占星家对说她将在er4shi2duo1岁时遇到自己的终身伴侣。	An astrologer tell her that she will meet her lifelong companion in her twenties.
口号	那条广告kou3hao4是双关语.	The advertising slogan was a play on words.
城区	政府需动用更多经费重建旧cheng2qu1.	More government money needs to go into rebuilding the inner cities.
岁数	你不应该把香烟卖给没到sui4shu5的青少年.	You shouldn't sell cigarettes to teenagers who are under age/to under-age teenagers.
潜入	鲸鱼被鱼叉射中後qian2ru4水中.	The whale dived as the harpoon struck it.
抖	我混身都在发dou3。	I'm shaking like a leaf.
安抚	我们当务之急是an1fu3死者的家属.	Our immediate concern is for/with the families of those who died.
舒坦	车厢间隔里没有别人, 我正好能伸胳膊伸腿shu1tan5一下.	Since there was no one else in the compartment I was able to spread myself.
助威	因为那些野蛮的zhu4wei1者，足球比赛不得不暂停。	The football march had to be paused because of the barbaric supporters.
路障	在发生爆炸之後，警方用lu4zhang4封锁了那条路。	Police blocked off the street after the explosion.
相当于	卢西塔尼亚古代一个地区，是古罗马帝国在伊伯利亚半岛的一个省份，大致xiang1dang1yu2今天的葡萄牙	An ancient region and Roman province of the Iberian Peninsula. It corresponded roughly to modern-day Portugal.
稳重	他有点神经质，但他的妻子是一个非常wen3zhong4的人。	He is a bit neurotic, but his wife is a very stable person.
诡计	假装昏迷只不过是个gui3ji4.	Pretending to faint was merely (an) artifice.
进门	我想拦住他, 不让他jin4men2, 可是他硬闯进来了.	I tried to stop him coming through the door but he just barged (his way) in.
代号	请把dai4hao4上或打上。	Please stamp the code numbers on.
透顶	他的设想很好, 但实行起来却糟糕tou4ding3.	His original idea was good, but his execution of the scheme was disastrous.
绷	医生不得不用石膏beng3带来固定他断了的胳膊。	The doctor had to hold his broken arm with a plaster cast.
分为	比fen1wei23比1, 对我方有利。	The score was 3 to 1 in our favor.
埋藏	黄金mai2cang2於地下深处.	The gold lies deep in the earth.
歉意	她先为迟到表示qian4yi4, 然後开始讲话.	She prefaced her talk with an apology/by apologizing for being late.
惧怕	我们ju4pa4敌人强大的军事力量.	We fear the military might of the enemy.
条例	这座建筑物不符合安全tiao2li4。	The building does not conform to safety regulations.
岳父	在拜访yue4fu4之前，他把鞋子擦黑。	He blacked his shoes before visiting his father-in-law.
山楂	我喜欢唱‘shan1zha1树’这首歌。	I like to sing the song 'hawthorn'.
不解	听到他咂咂舌头的声音，她疑惑bu4jie3在想：""我说错了什么？""	What have I said wrong now? "" She wondered, as she heard he click his tongue.
冰凉	他用bing1liang2的手捧起一杯滚热的巧克力饮料。	He cupped his cold hands round the cup of hot chocolate.
沿	圆环yan2人行道滚动.	The hoop rolled along the pavement.
淡忘	只有时间才能使人dan4wang4那些不快的记忆。	Time alone will efface those unpleasant memories.
放进	你把玩具玩儿完了以後fang4jin4柜子里去.	Put your toys away in the cupboard, when you've finished playing.
收买	别想shou1mai3我。	Don't try to buy me off.
流感	liu2gan3是一种传染病，其特征是发热、全身疼痛和疲乏无力。	Flu is an infectious disease characterized by fever, aches and pains and exhaustion.
剃	她有时ti4腿上的寒毛.	She sometimes shaves the hair off her legs.
填补	我得把墙上的那条裂缝tian2bu3好.	I must fill that crack in the wall.
极点	她的行为残暴到了ji2dian3。	Her behaviour was a positive outrage.
痒痒	我鼻子yang3yang5.	My nose tickles.
钱财	我已经戒赌了－－赌博完全是浪费qian2cai2。	I've finished with gambling it's a waste of money.
服役	如果战争爆发, 我们将立即被征召fu2yi4。	If war breaks out, we shall be called up right away.
打字	你知道我多么讨厌da3zi4和速记。	You know how I loathe typing and shorthand.
专栏	他过去曾为这家报纸写zhuan1lan2文章。	He used to write a column for this newspaper.
无话可说	至于我嘛，wu2hua4-ke3shuo1。	As for me, I have nothing to say.
出海	chu1hai3一周後, 又重新回到陆地上而感到愉快.	After a week at sea, it was good to feel the earth under our feet again.
做客	不知您是否愿意下星期来我们家zuo4ke4？	I am wondering if you'd care to visit us next week?
本土	有许多中国人住在唐人街，其人数比中国ben3tu3之外世界其他任何地方的华人都多。	More Chinese live in China Town than in any other part of the world outside China.
行者	热情的示威游xing2zhe3被新闻媒介忽视了。	The zealous demonstrators were ignored by the media.
外衣	在古代人们穿着束腰wai4yi1。	Ancient people wore tunics.
大喊大叫	球迷一看见他都激动得da4han3-da4jiao4.	The fans screamed with excitement when they saw him.
深渊	裂缝土地表面上深的、陡峭的缝隙；shen1yuan1或峡谷	A deep, steep-sided opening in the earth's surface; an abyss or a gorge.
字典	编成一本zi4dian3是一个缓慢的过程。	Producing a dictionary is a slow process.
能手	他是徒手格斗的neng2shou3。	He is an expert in unarmed combat.
利物浦	li4 wu4 pu3队因对方一队员用手触球而得到一个罚球。	Liverpool were given a penalty when one of their opponents handled the ball.
袖子	我的xiu4zi5破了一大块.	There's a big rip in my sleeve.
定时	国与国之间的边界未明确划ding4shi2，通常会发生纠纷。	When boundaries between countries are not clearly defined, there is usually trouble.
围攻	在沼泽地里，我们受到蚊子的wei2gong1。	In the swamp we were beset by mosquitoes.
心地	他外表粗鲁, xin1di4却十分善良.	Beneath his gruff exterior he's really very kind-hearted.
洗礼	他们在教堂接受了xi3li3。	They received baptism at the church.
有理	她断定那笔钱用得不是地方，而我们在经济上遇到的困难却也似乎说明她言之you3li3。	She claimed that money had been wasted and our financial difficulties seemed to prove her point.
国防部	她现在隶属于Guo2fang2bu4。	She's on attachment to the Ministry of Defense.
全心全意	重要的是，我们必须quan2xin1-quan2yi4为人民服务。	Above all, we must serve the people whole-heartedly.
肾脏	每个人有一对shen4zang4。	Each man has a pair of kidneys.
圣地	这是sheng4di4，我们不可践踏。	This is sanctified ground, and we may not tread upon it.
社会主义	这个组织支持she4hui4zhu3yi4哲学。	This organization espouses the socialist philosophy.
重组	chong2zu3父母没有表现而其子嗣自然形成基因chong2zu3之现象，这是由于采用了杂交或独立分类的方法而出现的	The natural formation in offspring of genetic combinations not present in parents, by the processes of crossing over or independent assortment.
弹药	士兵们装备好了武器和dan4yao4.	The soldiers were well equipped with weapons and ammunition.
自言自语	这个精神病人老是zi4yan2-zi4yu3地说：“是我不好，是我不好。”	The mad man is always thinking aloud:""It was my fault.It was my fault.""
涌	血从伤口中yong3出.	Blood was pouring from the wound.
柴	（用以护堤、坝等的）chai2排，沉排，沉床荆棘和杆子的密织席，用于保护堤、坝，使不受侵蚀	A closely woven mat of brush and poles used to protect an embankment, a dike, or a dam from erosion.
抽出	这台泵通过这个阀门把（容器中的）空气chou1chu1.	The pump sucks air out (of the vessel) through this valve.
本子	日记簿用来保存个人经历记载的ben3zi5	A book for use in keeping a personal record, as of experiences.
天黑	tian1hei1了，我把窗帘拉上。	I drew the curtain as it was getting dark.
惊恐	鸟儿jing1kong3地竖起了羽毛。	The bird ruffled up its feathers.
昂	她ang2着头，把背挺得笔直。	She held her head erect and her back straight.
敲诈	这显然是qiao1zha4!	It's a clear case of blackmail!
高烧	他的死亡是由gao1shao1引起的。	His death was caused by a high fever.
橄榄	甜椒的果实其果，用来烧菜，做色拉或绿gan3lan3的佐料	The fruit of this plant, used in cookery, salad, and as stuffing for green olives.
时间表	shi2jian1biao3上有一些变动。	There have been a few alterations to the timetable.
雨季	yu3ji4已来临。	The moist season has set in.
外部	房子的wai4bu4需要粉刷.	The outside of the house needs painting.
胶带	他给窗框上漆时，用遮蔽jiao1dai4把玻璃边缘贴住。	He put masking tape round the edges of the glass while he painted the window frame.
现有	我们应该更好地利用xian4you3设备。	We should make a better use of the existing equipment.
中等	别让她在外边雨zhong1deng3著.	Don't leave her waiting outside in the rain.
肢体	主动脉系统血管的主干道，将血液由心脏左侧输送到除肺部以外的所有zhi1ti3及器官的动脉里	The main trunk of the systemic arteries, carrying blood from the left side of the heart to the arteries of all limbs and organs except the lungs.
肠道	便秘有困难的、不完全的或不经常从chang2dao4排泄干燥且硬的大便	Difficult, incomplete, or infrequent evacuation of dry, hardened feces from the bowels.
号称	这罐头起子hao4cheng1是一项非常好的发明，但实际上它很不好用。	It is claimed that this tin-opener is a very good invention, but in practice it's not easy to use.
孔雀	她完全是一只kong3que4，除“美”而外。	She is a peacock in everything but beauty.
抵押	我还了di3ya1借款, 如释重负!	Paying my mortgage was an enormous weight off my mind!
鼓起	他gu3qi3全部的勇气参加比赛。	He mustered all his courage to take part in the game.
事变	大事具有重要意义的事件或shi4bian4	A significant occurrence or happening.
炸掉	这次爆炸把山头zha4diao4了。	The explosion blasted the hill-top off.
参赛者	can1sai4zhe3中包括三名世界记录保持者。	The field includes three world record holders.
钉子	她的衣服让ding1zi5给钩住了。	Her dress caught on a nail.
陆军	国家元首被lu4jun1废黜了。	The head of state was deposed by the army.
老太婆	lao3tai4po2、老妪	An old woman; a crone.
前线	qian2xian4的位于qian2xian4的或适合qian2xian4用的	Located or used at a military front.
锦标赛	观看jin3biao1sai4的观众们丢下的废物，实非笔墨所能描述。	The rubbish left behind by the Cup Final crowd beggars description.
迷宫	我无法找出mi2gong1中扑朔迷离的路线。	I was unable to find out the intricate windings of the labyrinth.
马甲	紧身ma3jia3妇女穿的有花边的外衣，如背心一样穿在外衣的上面	A woman's laced outer garment, worn like a vest over a blouse.
汉堡包	han4bao3bao1连锁店声明他们只用上等牛肉。	The hamburger chain say it only use premium quality beef.
渔夫	yu2fu1用矛作为武器。	The fisher used a spear as his weapon.
落入	他们设下圈套, 他果然luo4ru4其中.	They set a trap for him and he walked right into it.
性关系	对抗作用一个生物和另一种生物新陈代谢物之间的对抗xing4guan1xi4	The antagonistic association between an organism and the metabolic substances produced by another.
剂量	身体经不住那麽大ji4liang4的放射线。	The body cannot tolerate such large amounts of radiation.
重返	对居住在加利福尼亚的爱好导致她放弃chong2fan3纽约的机会。	Her affinity for living in California led her to reject a chance to return to New York.
手软	警方在跟犯罪分子的斗争中决不shou3ruan3。	The police will not relent in their fight against crime.
惊险	演出快进行到最jing1xian3的部分时响起了咚咚的鼓声.	A drum roll preceded the most dangerous part of the performance.
苏珊	请问, 我和Su1shan1说句话行吗?	Can I talk to Susan, please?
谋杀罪	他因犯mou2sha1zui4而被处以绞刑。	He was hanged for murder.
膨胀	木材潮湿後往往会peng2zhang4.	Wood often swells when wet.
轮子	螺栓折了, lun2zi5脱了出来.	The bolt sheared (off) and the wheel came off.
树叶	shu4ye4在风中飞舞。	The leaves whirled in the wind.
会合	骑士们在小酒店里hui4he2，讨论他们的计划。	The knights met in the tavern to discuss their plan.
发放	按季收付的款项按季度fa1fang4或收到的津贴、工资或付款	A monetary allowance, wage, or payment made or received quarterly.
好奇心	我只好解释原因来满足他的hao4qi2xin1。	I had to explain the reasons to satisfy his curiosity.
争辩	别再zheng1bian4逗号的用法了.	Stop quibbling about the use of the comma.
窗子	玛丽不但清扫房间而且也洗刷chuang1zi5。	Mary not only cleaned the room but (also) washed the window.
想必	现在xiang3bi4是四点半左右。	It must be about four thirty.
手稿	早期的shou3gao3保存下来的不多.	Few of the early manuscripts have been preserved.
野餐	他们一家常在树林里ye3can1。	Their family often picnics in the woods.
马拉松	参加ma3la1song1长跑要有耐力.	Marathon runners need plenty of stamina.
情趣	他度假归来, 对假日qing2qu4仍津津乐道.	He hasn't stopped enthusing about his holiday since he returned.
捆	他用细绳来kun3扎包裹。	He tied the parcel with twine.
生前	他sheng1qian2做的好事将永留人世。	The good which he did will live after him.
恳求	我们ken3qiu2他忍耐。	We begged him to forbear.
高雅	这件衣服的式样真gao1ya3，它一定会流行好几年。	This dress is such a good style; it will be fashionable for many years.
效力	该项法规具有追溯xiao4li4。	The legislation was made retrospective.
实体	在一个集合中，具有定义一个集合性质的对象、shi2ti3或概念。	In a set, an object, entity, or concept having the properties that define a set.
政客	许多zheng4ke4都是狡猾的诡辩家.	Many politicians are cunning sophists.
顾及	他完全不gu4ji2自己的安全。	He's quite reckless of his own safety.
制成	铸铁的用铸铁zhi4cheng2的	Made of cast iron.
北美	温和的气候给Bei3 Mei3带来大丰收。	The benign weather brought North America a bumper crop.
自如	他说阿拉伯语和英语都一样zi4ru2.	He speaks Arabic and English with equal ease.
破灭	我的梦想已经po4mie4了。	My dreams have been shattered.
高大	他是一个gao1da4的男孩。	He is a tall boy.
照料	他们聘请他zhao4liao4婴儿.	They employed him to look after the baby.
缓缓	送葬队伍huan3huan3地穿过街道。	The funeral made its way slowly through the streets.
泥土	ni2tu3中有许多蠕虫.	There are a lot of worms in the soil.
筒	线缠绕在纸tong3上.	The string is wound round a cardboard cylinder.
从头到尾	我把这本书cong2tou2-dao4wei3看完了。	I've read the book from beginning to end.
日后	录音磁带一种相对狭长的磁带，用于录下声音以便ri4hou4重放	A relatively narrow magnetic tape used to record sound for subsequent playback.
囚禁	有暴力行为的囚犯隔离qiu2jin4.	Violent prisoners are kept separate from the others.
埃	她的姨妈ai1菲真是个怪人.	Her Aunt Effie is certainly an original.
拦截	该足球队员向旁边跨步以避开对方lan2jie2动作.	The footballer side-stepped the tackle.
得逞	他企图欺骗我们, 但没有de2cheng3.	He was foiled in his attempt to deceive us/His attempt to deceive us was foiled.
抄袭	她因考试chao1xi2作弊而受到处罚.	She was punished for copying during the examination.
送达	治安官管辖权和管辖范围都小于县治安官的治安官，有权song4da2传票及逮捕（搜查）令并可以施行逮捕	A peace officer with less authority and smaller jurisdiction than a sheriff, empowered to serve writs and warrants and make arrests.
干酪	gan1lao4散发出强烈的气味。	The cheese was emitting a strong smell.
极大	她获得奖学金後受到ji2da4的鼓舞.	Winning the scholarship gave her a tremendous lift.
害人	我给孩子吃药的，大人，""姑娘哽咽地说，""老天爷作证，我并没有hai4ren2之心。""	I gave the baby the medicine, your honour, "" sobbed the girl. ""But as God is my witness, I meant no harm.""
皇室	街上挂起了旗子，庆祝huang2shi4婚礼。	The streets were flagged to celebrate the royal wedding.
相传	部落的知识和风俗口耳xiang1chuan2保存下来.	Tribal lore and custom have been passed down orally.
一级	他的律师决定向高yi1ji2法院上诉。	His lawyer decided to take an appeal to a higher court.
灭绝	人类是否会受到完全mie4jue2的威胁呢？	Is the human race threatened with complete extinction?
波动	你同意光的bo1dong4理论吗？	Do you agree to the wave theory of light?
复原	那老人的头脑一犯起糊涂来，仓促之间是很难fu4yuan2的。	The old man's wits, once gone a-wool-gathering, rarely came back in a hurry.
梅花	mei2hua1是王牌.	Clubs is/are trumps.
半路	他在ban4lu4走丢了。	He was lost on the way.
整洁	他穿着zheng3jie2的制服去约会。	He wore an immaculate uniform for the date.
搜集	她爱好sou1ji2小摆设.	She collects bric-a-brac.
饱满	和谐一种bao3man3、奔放的和音的流露	A full, rich outpouring of harmonious sound.
掏出	她从容地tao1chu1钱夹付了一千镑现金, 多麽豪爽!	She just took out her purse and paid a thousand in cash: what a cool customer!
驾驶员	jia4shi3yuan2减低速度。	The driver lessened his speed.
尊贵	好客的主人很快为zun1gui4的客人腾空了闲置着的房间。	The hospitable host had his spare room emptied very quickly for the honoured guest.
用处	他的描述很笼统, yong4chu5不大.	His description was too general to be of much use.
国旗	肯定是什么人物，因他棺材上有guo2qi2。	He must be somebody, for a flag was draped over the coffin.
哈罗德	Ha1luo2de2百货公司的陈列品是伦敦一景.	The displays in Harrods are one of the sights in London.
受损	据说轮船严重shou4sun3，详情正在调查之中，但我方利益已完全保住，请电告伦敦公司。	Steamer report seriously damaged now ascertain particulars however our interest fully protected transmit to London
感知	gan3zhi1知觉的效果或产物	The effect or product of perceiving.
栗子	你自己拿一只烤li4zi5吧。	Grab yourself a roast chestnut.
图书	她在乡村tu2shu1展销会上买到一本珍贵的首版书。	She picked up a valuable first edition at a village book sale.
处决	他们把国王chu3jue2了。	They executed the king.
不便	真是的，这叫人非常bu4bian4。	Well, this is most inconvenient.
乳酪	喂，我要订一个（份）大的ru3lao4比萨。	Hello, I'd like to order a large cheese pizza, please.
惹火	他们一再发牢骚把他re3huo3了.	He was irritated by their perpetual complaints.
印花	yin4hua1薄织物由羊毛、棉花或人造纤维做成的一种轻便柔软的通常yin4hua1的织物	A soft, lightweight, usually printed fabric made of wool, cotton, or rayon.
建筑师	这个男孩下定决心成为一个优秀的jian4zhu4shi1。	The boy made up his mind to become an excellent architect.
巡回	在史蒂文森教授xun2hui2讲演期间，由琼斯助教全权代表。	During Prof. Stevenson's absence on a lecture tour, Assistant Prof. Jones acted for him.
上个月	他的书shang4ge5yue4出版了。	His book came out last month.
内脏	nei4zang4内部脏器，尤指大小肠；nei4zang4	The internal organs, especially the intestines; viscera.
待人	根据出身不同而区别dai4ren2是不对的.	It is wrong to differentiate between people according to their family background.
秋季	您被邀请参观我们的qiu1ji4时装展览。	You are invited to view our autumn collection.
毕	今日事, 今日bi4。	Never put off what you can do today until tomorrow.
越过	他们yue4guo4群山，到了那边的山谷。	They crossed the mountains and travelled to the valleys beyond.
雨伞	他不像典型的城市商人那样, 穿一身深色的套服、 带一把收好的yu3san3.	He doesn't conform to the usual stereotype of the city businessman with a dark suit and rolled umbrella.
烟草	每年都要花费大量金钱在yan1cao3上。	A high amount of money is spent on tobacco every year.
简称	我的名字叫亚历山大，jian3cheng1“亚尔”。	My name is Alexander,""Al"" for short.
俄语	她会说法语, 德语, 还会说一点儿E2yu3.	She speaks French and German and also a little Russian.
树枝	猴子头向下倒挂在shu4zhi1上。	The monkey was hanging head downwards from the branch.
房顶	檐槽把雨水从fang2ding3排走的水槽，装在屋檐边或檐下	A trough fixed under or along the eaves for draining rainwater from a roof.
紧密	人类的种种经验都证明了爱与怕之间的jin3mi4联系。	All kinds of human experience testify to the close link between love and fear.
宣告	那有一张王室的公告，xuan1gao4王子诞生了。	There is a royal proclamation of the birth of the prince.
冲洗	用热水把菜盘上凝结的油渍chong1xi3掉.	Use hot water to rinse the congealed fat off the dinner plates.
木乃伊	自那时起，从埃及的mu4nai3yi5头发到石器时代的檀香木等有机物质的年代都已被确定。	Since then, organic materials ranging from Egyptian mummy hair to Stone Age sandals have been dated.
琳	玛里lin2要的是爱而不是崇拜。	Marilyn wanted to be loved, not lionized.
应急	用旧公共汽车ying4ji2来安置难民.	Old buses were pressed into service as emergency housing for the refugees.
延迟	减少元件和电路的几何尺寸，以达到增加电路的封装密度、减少功耗和减小信号传播yan2chi2的目的。	The reduction in size of components and circuits for increasing package density and reducing power dissipation and signal propagation delays.
睿智	rui4zhi4与机灵不同，前者可随着年龄增加。	Sagacity, unlike cleverness, may increase with age.
通行	山路要到春季末期才能tong1xing2.	The mountain roads are not passable until late spring.
摇滚乐	她喜欢yao2gun3yue4。	She is crazy about rock and roll.
替换	他们把他ti4huan4下来真不错。	Good job they have get a replacement for him.
来访	她把lai2fang3者引进屋子里。	She ushered the visitor into the room.
复苏	我们的经济正处于fu4su1阶段。	Our economy is undergoing a revival.
离奇	有一个li2qi2的故事一直流传着。	A strange story has been going round.
墨镜	她戴上mo4jing4以防强光的照射。	She put on dark glasses as a protection against the strong light.
战机	一中队zhan4ji1脱离编队攻击敌轰炸机群。	One squadron peeled off to attack enemy bombers.
变为	入侵者把村镇bian4wei2废墟。	The invader laid towns and villages in ruins.
存放	邮筒为cun2fang4外寄信件而设的公用盒箱	A public container for deposit of outgoing mail.
积雪	去年冬天，地上ji1xue3很厚。	Last winter the snow lay thick on the ground.
言行	他的yan2xing2就好像没有常识似的。	He behaves as if he had no common sense.
骑兵	他的儿子是qi2bing1团的一名战士。	His son is a soldier in a cavalry regiment.
实情	我断言他所说的是shi2qing2。	I affirm that what he said is true.
风头	尽管几位名角演出都很出色，却未曾想竟让一名新秀抢尽feng1tou5。	Despite fine acting by several well-known stars it was a young newcomer who stole the show.
牙痛	我遭受ya2tong4之苦。	I've suffered agonies with toothache.
卵	有些昆虫把luan3产在地上.	Some insects deposit their eggs on the ground.
开幕	kai1mu4，揭幕正式开始或引进	A formal beginning or introduction.
租金	缴纳zu1jin1以每季度末为期限。	The rent is due at the end of each quarter.
施舍	他是shi1she3的适当对象。	He is a proper object of charity.
进取	如果我们要克服困难，我们就要有jin4qu3精神。	We need a spirit of enterprise if we are to overcome our difficulties.
捐献	我的小小juan1xian4在巨大的总额中小得几乎看不见。	My small contribution was lost in the grand total.
伊始	委员会工作yi1shi3即十分不利.	The committee began its work under unfavourable auspices.
莲花	中国人把lian2hua1看作是纯洁的象征。	Chinese people regard lotus as an emblem of purity.
排球	pai2qiu2是我很喜欢的运动。	Volleyball is a sport of which I am very fond.
责任感	这危险的事唤起了他的ze2ren4gan3。	The danger recalled him to a sense of duty.
牢牢	那柱子lao2lao2地埋在地里.	The post is fast in the ground.
手提包	她向我讲述了他是怎样跑到她跟前抢走她的shou3ti2bao1的.	She described to me how he ran up to her and grabbed her handbag.
抑或	至于动力方式是采用“蒸气式”yi4huo4“柴油式”，我想贵公司将交由我方全权处理吧？	And the propulsion method whether steam or diesel, you'll leave to us, I suppose?
遗体	他的yi2ti3被运回，埋葬在一个公墓里。	His remains were shipped back and laid away in a cemetery.
凡人	对於我们fan2ren2来说，生活依旧。	Life goes on for those of us who remain here below.
均衡	多吃些水果, 少摄入些蛋白质, 使饮食jun1heng2合理.	Try to balance your diet by eating more fruit and less protein.
辈	父bei4应当被尊重。	A sire should be respected.
撞车	他zhuang4che1后驾驶执照被吊销了。	His driving licence was revoked after the crash.
空腹	不要kong1fu4时游泳。	Don't swim on an empty stomach.
侏儒	zhu1ru2身材矮的人	A man short in stature.
退役	他因负伤而tui4yi4.	He was invalided out of the army because of the wounds he received.
告发	检举人已向警方gao4fa1他（是恐怖分子）.	An informer denounced him to the police (as a terrorist).
喂养	畜牧主义以wei4yang3或放牧家畜为基础的社会和经济系统	A social and economic system based on the raising and herding of livestock.
高温	外面的gao1wen1真让人难以忍受。	The heat outside is unbearable.
妇人	那位fu4ren2对找回被盗的珠宝感到非常高兴。	Th woman was delighted at the recovery of her stolen jewels.
年薪	如果请费尔南德斯走路，教育局可以付钱马上终止合约，或是让他做满任期。费尔南德斯按规定可以在十九万五的nian2xin1之外，还可以领未用病假和其他福利折合现金四十万元。	If Fernandez is shown the door, the board could either buy out his contract immediately or allow him to serve out his term. Fernandez is set to collect$400, 000 in past sick pay and other benefits on top of his$195, 000 salary.
电报	我想用加急dian4bao4把它发出。	I want to have it send by an urgent telegram.
通报	客人来时你tong1bao4一声好吗?	Would you announce the guests as they come in?
计程车	她很热心, 为我打电话叫了ji4cheng2che1.	She was so kind as to phone for a taxi for me.
招供	警方劝嫌疑犯zhao1gong4.	The police persuaded the suspect to talk.
出奇	极好的某种东西chu1qi2地好或奇妙的	Something exceptionally exciting or wonderful.
累积	积累而成的，lei3ji1的以积累效果为特征的或者表现出积累效果的；lei3ji1的	Characterized by or showing the effects of accumulation; cumulative.
扫兴	尽管计划度假时兴致勃勃, 而到头来假日本身却颇为sao3xing4.	The holiday itself was rather an anticlimax after all the excitement of planning it.
天主教	tian1zhu3jiao4神父发誓不结婚.	Catholic priests take a vow of celibacy.
甜点	我喜欢在正餐后吃冰淇淋当tian2dian3。	I like to have ice cream for dessert.
姿色	她zi1se4迷人，因而评委都偏向她。	Her charm prejudiced the judges in her favour.
外貌	她和她姐姐wai4mao4相似，但性格不同。	She resembles her sister in appearance but not in character.
回信	我正写一封郑重其事的hui2xin4.	I'm composing a formal reply to the letter.
金鱼	谁也不会象病jin1yu2的主人般觉得那样束手无策。	No one can feel as helpless as the owner of a sick goldfish.
忙于	为了把烦恼忘却，他让自己mang2yu2花园的工作。	To forget his trouble, he busied himself in his garden .
油画	you2hua4布上满是涂抹的颜料.	Blobs of paint were dotted around the canvas.
手动	绞车，起货机一种装有卷筒的固定的电动机驱动或shou3dong4的吊升机械，卷筒周围缠绕着与提升的重物相连的绳索	A stationary motor-driven or hand-powered hoisting machine having a drum around which is wound a rope or chain attached to the load being lifted.
海豹	hai3bao4、 海龟、 企鹅均有鳍状肢.	Seals, turtles and penguins have flippers.
夺得	duo2de2金牌是她又一值得骄傲的成就.	Winning the gold medal was yet another feather in her cap.
金枪鱼	我喜欢吃jin1qiang1yu2罐头。	I like to eat tinned tuna fish.
站立	他们zhan4li4在她的墓的周围向她默哀.	They stood in silent homage round her grave.
进军	结婚行列进行时的音乐，常使我想起兵士们向战场jin4jun1时的音乐。	The music at a marriage procession always remind me of the music of soldier march to battle.
查明	这个侦探试图cha2ming2都有谁参加了聚会。	The detective was trying to ascertain exactly who was at the party.
嗜好	音乐和绘画是他生活中的两大shi4hao4。	His two great interests in life are music and painting.
临时工	老板雇佣了一些lin2shi2gong1。	The boss hired some temporary workers.
流出	水（从贮水池）缓缓liu2chu1.	The water slowly emptied (from the cistern).
沉醉	醉酒愉快的chen2zui4，如酒精	Pleasant intoxication, as from alcohol.
三分之一	把铝和其他金属混合，科学家们能够制造出各种合金，其中一些具有钢一样的强度，但其重量只是钢的san1 fen1zhi1 yi1。	By mixing aluminium with other metals, scientists have been able to produce a variety of alloys, some of which have the strength of steel but weigh only one third as much.
摆放	在离开办公室之前, 应把所有物品bai3fang4好。	Before you leave the office, everything should be put in place.
烧毁	这幢旧房子在昨夜的大火中shao1hui3了。	The old house burned down last night in the big fire.
潜艇	这艘船是被一艘核qian2ting3击沉的。	The ship was sunk by an atomic submarine.
发言人	王宫fa1yan2ren2刚宣布了一项声明.	The palace (ie A spokesman for the king, queen, etc) has just issued a statement.
诸	他们跪拜zhu1神。	They knelt in adoration of their gods.
海浪	hai3lang4轻轻地拍打着海岸。	The waves gently lap against the shore.
家教	这孩子品行不好，说明jia1jiao4不严。	That child's bad behaviour reflects on his home training.
捣	请把黄豆dao3成粉。	Please pound up the soybeans.
处罚	他受到的chu3fa2是罪有应得。	He richly deserved the punishment he received.
欺诈	对我们的善意和信任，他们以qi1zha4来回报。	Our kindness and trust was requited only with dishonesty on their part.
小巷	这xiao3xiang4有车胎轧出的凹痕.	The lane was rutted with tyre tracks.
王妃	她泰然自若地履行wang2fei1的职责.	She performs the duties of a princess with great aplomb.
光泽	珠母般的具有珍珠般的guang1ze2的	Having a luster resembling that of pearls.
合唱团	你对he2chang4tuan2毫无益处--你简直唱不成调!	You're no use in the choir you cant sing a note!
何以	医生无法解释高烧he2yi3持久不退。	The doctor couldn't explain the persistence of the fever.
阶级	社会已分化成两个jie1ji2。	Society has polarized into two classes.
家用	这个商店有许多jia1yong4用具。	There are many household appliances in this shop.
显现	花朵在阳光下清晰地xian3xian4出轮廓。	The flower was clearly outlined in the light of the lamp.
敬意	他向我请教那件事以表示对我的jing4yi4。	He paid me the compliment of consulting me about the affair.
医药	目前正将yi1yao4用品空投到灾区.	Medical supplies are being dropped to the stricken area.
树木	云杉和松树都是常绿shu4mu4。	Spruce and pine are evergreen trees.
弄丢	我估计我的申请书不知道让哪个无能的官僚给nong4diu1了.	I suppose my application has been lost by some incompetent bureaucrat.
肖邦	Xiao4bang1的乐曲唤起了她极其复杂的感情。	Chopin aroused very complicated emotions in her.
大帝	亚历山大da4di4曾率领大军入侵印度.	Alexander the Great invaded India with a large army.
总经理	zong3jing1li3和董事长并列坐在桌子后面。	The general manager and the chairman are sitting behind the desk side by side.
大惊小怪	别为了丢失一支笔就这样da4jing1-xiao3guai4。	Don't make so much fuss over losing a pen.
领导者	他是追随者，不是ling3dao3zhe3。	He's a follower, not a leader.
升华	彗星上的冰块在太阳热的作用下迅速而壮观地sheng1hua2成气体。	The comet's ice, heated by the sun, rapidly and spectacular sublimate to gas.
外来	小集团的倾向于联成一个群体并排斥wai4lai2者的	Inclined to cling together as a group and exclude outsiders.
瘟疫	地震之后紧跟着就是wen1yi4。	Plague came in the wake of earthquake.
相连	她的命运一直与悲哀xiang1lian2。	Sorrow has always been her portion.
查找	我们用电脑cha2zhao3所有用连字符连接的词。	We did a computer search for all the hyphenated words.
熊熊	xiong2xiong2的柴火在起居室的炉中噼啪作响。	A cheerful wood fire was crackling in the sitting room.
出乎意料	现实中, 事情总是chu1hu1 yi4liao4地发生。	In reality, things always happen out of expectation.
另一方面	他一方面受到批评，ling4yi1fang1mian4却受到鼓励。	He has been criticized on one hand and encouraged on the other.
聋	这个女人说：""也许他又long2又哑吧。""	Perhaps he's deaf and dumb, "" said the woman.
赛场	运动员们离开sai4chang3时，被愤怒的人群推搡着。	The players were jostled by an angry crowd as they left the field.
琐事	即使是最聪明的人也会陷入suo3shi4与混乱之中。	The most brilliant person may be mired in detail and confusion.
路面	汽车在高低不平的砾石lu4mian4上颠簸着。	The car bumped on the uneven surface of the gravel road.
往来	我们两国之间的wang3lai2可以追溯到上个世纪。	The assiciation between our two countries can be traced back to last century.
还给	不要担心马达，会huan2gei3你们的[找到的]。	Don't worry about the motor.You'll get it back.
连续剧	多麽耸人听闻的事! 具备lian2xu4ju4的一切要素.	What a sensational story! It has all the elements of a soap opera.
龙头	他用自来水long2tou2流出的凉水把手洗干净。	He cleaned his hands in the cold water from the tap.
修饰	用于xiu1shi4或说明处理单元的某种状态，在此状态下阻止某种类型的中断发生。同masked。	Pertaining to a state of a processing unit that prevents the occurrence of certain types of interruptions.
坏处	试一下不会有什么huai4chu5的。	No harm can come of trying.
步枪	一枝bu4qiang1瞄准著人质的头.	The hostage had a rifle levelled at his head.
填写	把你的名字tian2xie3在每页上端的括号内。	Put your name in brackets at the top of each page.
下流	雨水从屋顶的破洞处哗哗往xia4liu2。	The rainwater is splashing down from the hole of the roof.
赶路	半小时之后，我又启程gan3lu4了。	Half an hour later I set out again on my journey.
成败	当然这一点必须优先考虑--这是cheng2-bai4的关键.	Of course this must have priority it's a matter of life and death.
紧身	现在的妇女不再穿jin3shen1衣了。	Women don't wear corset nowadays.
画像	在这张hua4xiang4中画著他躺在沙发上。	In the portrait he is shown lying on a sofa.
监听	这台仪器jian1ting1病人的心跳。	This instrument monitors the patient's heartbeats.
两边	他把派克大衣兜帽liang3bian1都绑得紧紧的来挡住雪。	He held both sides of the parka hood closed against the snow.
斑点	他脸上有许多难看的红色大ban1dian3.	His face was covered in ugly red blotches.
绝妙	这幅画的照片jue2miao4地再现了原作的色彩。	The photograph of the painting reproduces the colors of the original extremely well.
臭味	这件事从头到尾都散发著（贪污腐化的）chou4wei4!	The whole business stinks (of corruption)!
监护	离婚以后，孩子由父亲jian1hu4。	After their divorce, the father was awarded custody of the son.
乞求	他们得（向别人）qi3qiu2救济来养活孩子.	They had to beg alms (of others) in order to feed their children.
大拇指	踢进了那个球着实让他高兴，你看他的教练伸头da4mu3zhi3在鼓励他呢！	He's absolutely delighted to have scored that goal! See his coach give him the thumbs up!
动不动	不要dong4bu5dong4就挑毛病.	Don't be so ready to find fault.
恒	heng2湿器一种用于显示或控制空气中相对湿度的仪器	An instrument designed to indicate or control the relative humidity of the air.
热衷	他早年所受的教养使他re4zhong1於冒险活动.	His early training predisposed him to a life of adventure.
动用	遇有急用时，我们只好dong4yong4积蓄。	If it come to the push, we shall have to use our savings.
贵宾	gui4bin1们在大餐厅参加一个宴会。	The guests partook of a luxurious repast in the banqueting hall.
特区	温彻斯te4qu1英格兰中南部一自治区，位于伦敦西南。是盎格鲁－撒克逊时期西撒克斯王国的首府。在诺曼征服（1066年）以后，成为一个吸引了众多宗教学者的重要学术中心。人口32，100	A municipal borough of south-central England southwest of London. The capital of the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Wessex, it was an important center of learning that attracted many religious scholars after the Norman Conquest(1066). Population, 32,100.
中东	阿克巴湾红海的一个海湾，在西奈半岛及沙特阿拉伯西北部之间。它长期以来在Zhong1dong1具有重要的战略性	An arm of the Red Sea between the Sinai Peninsula and northwest Saudi Arabia. It has long been of strategic importance in the Middle East.
平稳	他们以ping2wen3的速度开车。	They drove at a steady rate.
山区	下一段行程我们就要进shan1qu1了.	The next lap of our trip takes us into the mountains.
摄入	多吃些水果, 少she4ru4些蛋白质, 使饮食均衡合理.	Try to balance your diet by eating more fruit and less protein.
勾起	他向内gou1qi3手指。	He crooked his finger to himself.
可口可乐	来杯Ke3kou3 Ke3le4，怎么样?	How about a coke?
约瑟夫	盖鲁萨克，Yue1se4fu1·路易斯1778－1850法国化学家和物理学家，析出硼元素（1809年），并且确切陈述了解释气体在固定压力下的表现方式的定律	French chemist and physicist who isolated the element boron(1809) and formulated a law that explains the behavior of a gas under constant pressure.
发怒	我最害怕他fa1nu4。	I fear his wrath more than anything.
高原	我们很快就抵达一片高度约九十英尺的gao1yuan2。	Soon we reach a plateau at an elevation of about ninety feet.
送去	把这些衬衣song4qu4洗熨.	Send these shirts to be laundered.
痛楚	他为了忍住tong4chu3而紧紧捏住拳关。	He clenched his fingers firmly to endure the pain.
外观	这建筑物的wai4guan1很不起眼.	The exterior of the building is very unattractive.
修补	弥补的用作xiu1bu3物的或与之有关的	Serving as or relating to a prosthesis.
享有	她在群众中xiang3you3很高威信。	She enjoyed high prestige among the masses.
往日	在除夕唱｀美好的wang3ri4＇是传统风俗.	It's a tradition to sing `Auld Lang Syne' on New Year's Eve.
疤痕	这伤口能留下ba1hen2吗?	Will the cut leave a scar?
抵御	他穿著厚实的大衣以di3yu4严寒.	He wore a thick overcoat as a protection against the bitter cold.
格斗	他是徒手ge2dou4的能手。	He is an expert in unarmed combat.
追赶	我们zhui1gan3窃贼.	We ran after the thief.
掂	他把石头拿在手上dian1了dian1。	He weighed the stone in his hands.
罪人	他对忏悔的zui4ren2一概慈悲为怀。	He is kind and gracious to all sinners who repent.
小号	惩罚条款印在不起眼的xiao3hao4字体部分。	The penalty clause was hidden in the small print.
续集	他正在写他的最新畅销书的xu4ji2。	He is writing a sequel to his latest best seller.
实物	你见到的是shi2wu4, 还是鬼魂?	Was it something substantial that you saw, or was it a ghost?
门前	昨天他清除了men2 qian2的垃圾。	He cleared away the rubbish at door yesterday.
百分之百	我bai3fen1 zhi1 bai3同意你的看法。	I am a hundred percent in agreement with you.
绝大多数	在沙漠地带，jue2da4duo1shu4时间都是大晴天，下雨天极少。	Sunny days predominate over rainy days in desert regions.
比利时	Bi3li4shi2被称作欧洲战场。	Belgium has been called the cockpit of Europe.
伴奏	那位演唱者的姐姐用钢琴给她ban4zou4.	The singer was accompanied at/on the piano by her sister.
忠于	士兵们zhong1yu2他们的国家。	The soldiers are loyal to their country.
段落	我删除了这篇文章的一个duan4luo4。	I cut out the paragraph in this article.
珊瑚	shan1hu2是由某些水螅体构成的.	Coral is formed by certain types of polyp.
音乐家	她不但是摄影师还是个天才的yin1yue4jia1.	She is a talented musician as well as being a photographer.
亵渎	从圣坛窃取耶稣受难像是xie4du2神灵的行为.	It is (a) sacrilege to steal a crucifix from an altar.
传票	治安官管辖权和管辖范围都小于县治安官的治安官，有权送达chuan2piao4及逮捕（搜查）令并可以施行逮捕	A peace officer with less authority and smaller jurisdiction than a sheriff, empowered to serve writs and warrants and make arrests.
十九	天才的百分之一是灵感，百分之九shi2jiu3是血汗。	Genius is one per cent inspiration and ninety- nine per cent perspiration.
化合物	空气是气体的混合物，不是hua4he2wu4。	Air is a mixture, not a compound of gases.
人世	他生前做的好事将永留ren2shi4。	The good which he did will live after him.
防卫	参议院已经投票支持总统的fang2wei4计划。	The Senate has voted to support the President's defense plans.
微波	在wei1bo1系统中，来自各处的分散的输入必须被汇集在一起，以形成一个综合的输入，然后由无线电发送和接收。	In microwave system the separate input from various sources must be brought together to give a composite input which is then transmitted and received by radio.
胡椒	姜、 肉豆蔻、 肉桂、 hu2jiao1、 丁香都是常用的香料.	Ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, pepper and cloves are common spices.
无从	她激情已逝, wu2cong2心回意转.	Nothing could rekindle her extinct passion.
夏娃	魔鬼诱惑了亚当和Xia4wa2.	The Devil tempted Adam and Eve.
雄心	他在青年时代曾经有过想当钢琴家的xiong2xin1。	In his youth he had the ambition of being a pianist.
电车	汽车和dian4che1塞满了整条街。	Cars and trolleys filled the streets.
暴风	在bao4feng1中屋顶的瓦片哗啦啦地落了下来.	During the gale roof tiles came hurtling down.
旱	久han4使很多人陷入饥饿。	The long drought famished many people.
扣子	你的一个kou4zi5松开了。	One of your buttons is undone.
高血压	这种病有两种情况: 第一, 由gao1xue4ya1引起; 第二....	The illness can develop in two ways: firstly, in cases of high blood pressure and secondly...
合身	那件大衣很he2shen1、 不he2shen1、 很瘦、 很宽松等.	The coat was a good, bad, tight, loose, etc fit.
时钟	shi2zhong1鸣响声打破了寂静.	The silence was succeeded by the striking of a clock.
王后	国王和wang2hou4陛下今天将为新桥通车典礼剪彩。	Their Majesty will open the new bridge today.
限度	他赛前量体重比规定xian4du4少几磅。	He weighed in at several pounds below the limit.
悬赏	她应该在附近贴几张寻找狗狗的xuan2shang3公告。	She should post rewards around the neighborhood for finding it.
爱丽丝	＂孩子们，大家聚拢点，Ai4li4si1小姐给你们讲个寓言故事。＂	Children, gather round, and Miss Alice will tell you a fable.""
效	这药的药xiao4令人满意。	The efficacy of the medicine is satisfactory.
组建	纳税人：如果双方zu3jian4合资企业是否有利呐？	Taxpayer: what will happen if the two companies establish equity joint venture?
芭蕾舞	你从前看过这出ba1lei3wu3剧吗?	Have you seenthis ballet before?
抬起	他tai2qi3头，凝望着天空。	He rose his head and stared at the firmament.
超速	她因chao1su4开车而被罚款。	She was fined for driving above the regulation speed.
挑逗	他用tiao3dou4的目光看了她一眼，羞得她满脸通红。	He gave her a suggestive glance, and she blushed.
字眼	你难道不能想出一个比｀好＇更恰当的zi4yan3来形容你的假日吗?	Can't you think of a better word than `nice' to describe your holiday?
飞快	新的一学年正fei1kuai4来到，我急切地盼望得到您对此事的回答。	As the new academic year is rapidly approaching, I am most eager to hear from you concerning this problem.
应对	凡是飞机驾驶员均ying4dui4乘客的安全负责.	All pilots are responsible for their passengers' safety.
圣诞树	我们买了一些装饰品来点缀sheng4dan4shu4。	We bought some ornaments for the Christmas tree.
酒馆	我们的房子离村中两家jiu3guan3距离相等.	Our house is equidistant from the two pubs in the village.
盲人	我对mang2ren2深感同情。	I felt much sympathy for the blind.
派出	总统pai4chu1他的高级助手去组织安排对立派别之间的和平谈判。	The president has sent his top aide to master-mind peace negotiations between the opposing factions.
棍	他一再挥gun4向我打来.	He struck at me repeatedly with a stick.
西边	日落时, xi1bian5天空有一道红晖.	At sunset, there was a bar of red across the western sky.
性欲	有的人看到色情杂志能激发起xing4yu4。	Some people are sexually excited by pornographic magazines.
电流	这个电钮接通dian4liu2。	This button switches the current on.
积蓄	遇有急用时, 我们只好动用ji1xu4.	If it comes to the push, we shall have to use our savings.
异议	他们对官方的政策表示出yi4yi4。	They expressed their dissent from official policy.
一带	那yi1dai4海岸没有安全的登陆处.	There is no safe landing on that coast.
哀悼	人们戴着黑纱ai1dao4我们的领导。	People wore crapes to mourn our leader.
满脸	我问起他那新女友, 他就man3lian3通红.	He went as red as a beetroot when I asked about his new girl-friend.
分娩	现在fen1mian3时常用硬膜外注射.	Epidurals are now often used during childbirth.
好象	感觉hao3xiang4春天到了。	It feels like spring
人均	铃响以前任何ren2jun1不得离开教室。	No one may leave the classroom until the bell go.
吗啡	那ma3fei1是注射进去的.	The morphine was administered by injection.
流产	母牛liu2chan3了。	The cow cast her calf.
备受	那个跳舞的人bei4shou4称赞。	The dancer was showered with praise.
低下	他因羞愧而di1xia4了头。	He because of bashful but low head.
问道	“这是您的车吗，先生？” 警察wen4dao4。	Is this your vehicle, sir?"" asked the policeman.
得体	彬彬有礼和谈吐de2ti3是文雅的标志。	Good manners and correct speech are marks of refinement.
草草	这个学生用半小时cao3cao3拼凑了一篇文章.	The student cobbled together an essay in half an hour.
九月	炎热的天气持续到jiu3yue4。	The hot weather lasted until September.
取胜	如今必须有高度的竞争意识才能在体育运动中qu3sheng4.	You have to be highly competitive to do well in sport nowadays.
艾滋病	政府正在采取措施消除ai4zi1bing4的危害性。	The government is taking measures to draw the fangs of AIDS.
乐于	他很谦虚, le4yu2接受意见。	He is very modest and open to advice.
水流	shui3liu2经水闸时十分湍急.	Water went rushing through the lock gates.
爱因斯坦	光学理论是Ai4yin1si1tan3首创的。	The optic theory originated with Einstein.
近视	我要是不戴眼镜十分jin4shi4。	I'm very near-sighted without my glasses on.
教书	他把晚年用在jiao1shu1和编纂以前的著作。	He spent his last years (in) teaching and editing earlier writings.
捐助	她很大方，juan1zhu4了这么大笔钱。	It was generous of her to contribute such a large sum.
方向盘	把fang1xiang4pan2往右边转转, 好修正驾驶上的偏差.	Turn the wheel to the right to correct the steering.
问答	教义wen4da2法常用于宗教教学。	The catechism is used for religious instruction.
尾声	当男主角策马向夕阳驰去时，wei3sheng1音乐逐渐消失。	The closing music fades out when the hero rides off into the sunset.
古人	gu3ren2认为勇敢是美德的主要成分。	The ancients counted courage as the main part of virtue.
淫荡	他yin2dang4地对她眨了一下眼。	He gave her a lewd wink.
兵力	分散bing1li4是导致失败的原因。	Dispersion of forces led up to the defeat.
飞奔	摔下来的骑手遭fei1ben1马群践踏.	Fallen riders were trampled underfoot by the charging horses.
为生	这个无家可归的男孩靠乞讨和偷窃wei2sheng1。	The homeless boy begs and thieves for a living.
门铃	他专心读报, 连men2ling2也没听见。	He was too absorbed in the newspaper to hear the bell.
蝎子	xie1zi5的长尾巴上长着一个有毒的蛰针。	A scorpion has a poisonous sting in its long jointed tail.
牢记	我试着把那个日期lao2ji4在心。	I tried to fix the date in my mind.
接纳	不久克里特将jie1na4收容你，那是养育了我的地方，我们的新房也将安的那里。	So Crete shall presently receive thee, Crete that was mine own foster-mother, where thy bridal chamber shall be.
必需品	他们为远航的船只准备了食品和bi4xu1pin3。	They provisioned the ship for a long voyage.
洁白	她jie2bai2的脸和她黑色的衣服形成强烈的对比。	Her white face and her dark dress contrast sharply.
婶婶	当然，父亲会经常供给一些零钱，但是叔叔和shen3shen5也总是额外收入的源泉。	Father, of course, provides a regular supply of pocket-money, but uncles and aunts are always a source of extra income.
纽扣	请你把这颗niu3kou4缝到我的衬衫上好吗？	Would you sew this button onto my shirt?
凶残	凶恶的人，虎狼之徒被认为是有野心、卤莽或xiong1can2的人	A person regarded as aggressive, audacious, or fierce.
溜冰	她喜欢和我一起liu1bing1。	She likes to ice-skate with me.
辛辛苦苦	玛丽xin1xin1ku3ku3把约翰的房间打扫干净，不料她所得到的却是一番侮辱。	Mary worked hard to clean up John's room, but all she got for her trouble was a kick in the teeth.
豌豆	他正在剥wan1dou4。	He is podding peas.
粗暴	我对他的cu1bao4提出抗议。	I made remonstrance against his rudeness.
留心	liu2xin1那级台阶，它有点松动了。	Mind that step; it's loose!
为人	神父wei2ren2举行临终圣礼。	The priest administered the last rites.
升高	这样，这架飞机才能sheng1gao1，并在距山头四百英尺的高度飞越山顶。	The plane was then able to rise and it cleared the mountains by400 feet.
心软	看到这个小女孩哭起来，他的xin1ruan3了。	His heart melted when he saw the little girl crying.
弄到	我nong4dao4两张优胜杯决赛的票.	I've got two tickets for the Cup Final.
鲁莽	胡说，废话愚蠢的，lu3mang3的言谈，胡说	Foolish, insolent talk; nonsense.
判断力	每个人都埋怨自己的记忆力，却无人埋怨自己的pan4duan4li4。	Everyone complain of his memory, no one of his judgement.
外汇	你们接受wai4hui4券兑换券吗？	Do you accept foreign exchange certificate?
震荡	zhen4dang4剧烈的掸击；zhen4dang4	A violent jarring; a shock.
一片	暴风雨之后是yi1 pian4沉静。	The storm was succeeded by calm.
选民	xuan3min2转而支持左派.	Voters have/Voting has swung to the left.
脸庞	红宝石项链照亮了她的lian3pang2。	Her ruby necklace brightened her face.
指头	她喝茶时弯起小zhi3tou5。	She crooked her little finger as she drank her tea.
企业家	qi3ye4jia1要具备什麽素质才能出人头地?	What qualities go to make a successful businessman?
郁金香	yu4jin1xiang1在春天开出颜色鲜亮的杯状的花朵。	Tulip grows large brightly-colored cup-shaped flower in spring.
喝醉	他并未he1zui4，而是茫然出神。	He wasn't drunk, he was goofing off.
降落伞	伞衣jiang4luo4san3打开以获得空气浮力的部分	The part of a parachute that opens up to catch the air.
住址	人而无一zhu4zhi3者是为流浪汉，zhu4zhi3有二者是为放荡儿。	A man without an address is a vagabond; a man with two address is a libertine.
跑道	飞机在pao3dao4上滑行.	The plane taxied/was taxiing along the runway.
歌星	那位流行歌曲ge1xing1周围蜂拥著许多歌迷。	The pop star was followed by a train of admirers.
柏	bai3枝作为悲哀象征的bai3树枝	Cypress branches used as a symbol of mourning.
氧	水含有氢和yang3。	Water contains hydrogen and oxygen.
全然	他说他的工会——运输工会504分会——历年来在合约上做了“极大的让步”以协助泛美［航空公司］纾解财务困难。“结果quan2ran2没用，”他哀伤地说。	He said his union, Local504 of the Transport Workers Union, made""massive contract givebacks"" over the years to help Pan Am with its financial troubles.""It was all to no avail, "" he lamented.
用完	他的红墨水yong4wan2了。	He has run out of red ink.
约翰逊	Yue1han4xun4上上下下打量了她一番，决定邀请她出去。	Johnson looked her up and down and decided to ask her out.
工艺	陶瓷学制作陶瓷物品的gong1yi4或技术，尤指用耐火粘土制	The art or technique of making objects of ceramic, especially from fired clay.
无边	象中国一样，美国继承了幅员辽阔的国土，有一望无际的丛山峻岭，沃土良田和wu2bian1草原。	Like you, we inherited a vast land of endless skies, tall mountains, rich fields, and open prairies.
在座	他在餐桌上举止粗鲁, zai4zuo4的人颇为难堪.	His ignorant behaviour at the dinner table caused much embarrassment.
贵重	侵略者在沿海城乡抢劫食物和gui4zhong4物品.	The invaders plundered food and valuables from coastal towns and villages.
冷天	leng3tian1出门时要披上披肩。	You should put a robe on if you go out in a cold day.
再也	我累得zai4 ye3走不动了。	I was too tired to walk any further.
年长	他是最优秀的nian2zhang3的国务活动家.	He is the elder statesman par excellence.
羽绒	我女儿请求我给她买一个yu3rong2枕头。	My daughter asked me to buy her a pillow stuffed with feathers.
法学院	他在fa3xue2yuan4读书。	He is at law college.
到期	你的驾驶执照何时dao4qi1？	When is the expiration of your driving license?
微弱	电晕在电晕放电中在高压电极出现的一种wei1ruo4光辉，常伴随有朝向低压电极的电流	A faint glow enveloping the high-field electrode in a corona discharge, often accompanied by streamers directed toward the low-field electrode.
笔迹	我看不懂他的bi3ji4.	I can't read his handwriting.
琼	qiong2在从事争取妇女平等权力的活动。	Joan is campaigning for equal rights for women.
争斗	我和他激烈地zheng1dou4了几分钟，终于从他手中夺走了那本书。	I tussled with him for a few minutes and managed to wrench the book from his grasp.
底片	把门关上，不然亮光能使di3pian4发灰。	Shut the door or the light will fog the film.
奋力	工程师fen4li4进行修桥工作.	The engineers set to on repair work to the bridge.
戈	ge1登接近禁区了。	Gordon's near the penalty area.
劳累	多年的lao2lei4和疏于保养损害了他们的健康。	Years of hardship and neglect had taken their toll.
不懈	人类与大自然进行bu4xie4的斗争.	Man is engaged in a constant struggle with Nature.
单身汉	我们学校里所有女孩子都崇拜那个恰巧是dan1shen1han4的英俊数学老师。	All the girls in our school adore the handsome mathematics teacher who happens to be a bachelor.
音符	在音乐家的脑海里，一组稍纵即逝的yin1fu2逐渐形成一个曲调。	In the musician's mind a fugitive set of notes began slowly to form into a tune.
宽广	他向kuan1guang3的大海望去，一种神秘感油然而生。	A sense of mystery stole over him as he looked out on the wide sea.
布满	那老人的脸上bu4man3皱纹和褶子.	The old man's face was covered in lines and wrinkles.
水肿	我的病是气喘和shui3zhong3，还有无可救药的是七十五（岁）。	My disease is an asthma and a dropout and, what is less curable, seventy- five.
要死	每个人都是注定yao4si3的。	Everyone is doomed to die.
相貌	尽管我俩xiang4mao4不同，但都讨人喜欢。	Although our looks differ, we are both attractive.
捉弄	这些男孩zhuo1nong4那位老人真是残忍。	It is very cruel of these boys to make a fool of that old man.
掘	我们正在jue2地探矿.	We are digging for mineral deposits.
早已	我打电话时, 她zao3yi3走了.	She had already left when I phoned.
捣蛋	马上过来, 你这个小dao3dan4!	Come here at once, you little monkey!
职工	你不能以疲劳为理由就这样对待zhi2gong1.	Tiredness cannot possibly justify your treating staff this way.
开发商	王子斥责土地kai1fa1shang1破坏了伦敦市建筑物映在空中的轮廓线之美.	The prince vituperated against the developers for ruining London's skyline.
缩写	在书写时, Doctor头衔的suo1xie3是Dr.	In writing, the title `Doctor' is abbreviated to `Dr'.
单人	旅馆的dan1ren2房间的价钱每天从20美元到50美元不等。	The tariff at the hotel ranges from 20 dollars to 50 dollars a day for a single room.
色调	这个房间是用红色和棕色装饰的暖se4diao4。	The room was furnished in warm reds and browns.
中性	zhong1xing4的电路元件	A passive circuit element.
残骸	调查人员在飞机can2hai2中搜索, 希望找出造成这一悲惨事件的原因.	Investigators are searching the wreckage of the plane to try and find the cause of the tragedy.
叮当	我听到了他口袋里ding1dang1碰撞的硬币声。	I heard the clink of coins in his pockets.
止痛药	医生给我开了个zhi3tong4yao4方.	The doctor gave me a prescription for pain-killers.
研究所	这两个yan2jiu1suo3打算合并的事现在已经落空了。	The proposed amalgamation of the two institutes has mow fallen through.
出世	他们大多数人是解放战争期间chu1shi4的。	Most of them came into the world during the War of Liberation.
敬畏	惊奇的，诧异的感觉或表达jing4wei4、钦佩、吃惊或惊奇的	Feeling or expressing awe, admiration, amazement, or surprise.
补习	我正在成人学校bu3xi2法语，到时好让他们大吃一惊。	I'm brushing up on my French at adult school just to surprise them.
关押	他因持械抢劫而guan1ya1了十年。	He was put away for ten years for armed robbery.
胶片	电影jiao1pian4从卷轴滑出缠绕在放映机上了.	The film flew off the spool and wound itself round the projector.
订购	该宿舍的人ding4gou4了一些新家具.	The mess has ordered some new furniture.
灯火	海港的deng1huo3在水平线上闪烁著.	Harbour lights were blinking on the horizon.
灯塔	deng1ta3每一分钟发出两次信号。	The lighthouse flashes signals twice a minute.
孔子	Kong3zi3被认为是中国古代最伟大的圣贤。	Confucius is considered the greatest of the ancient Chinese sages.
密集	mi4ji2的迫击炮火力从这些阵地射向由山谷那边上来的援军。	From these positions mortar fire was rained down upon reinforcements moving up through the valley.
马铃薯	今年ma3ling2shu3丰收。	The tomatoes have cropped well this year.
躯体	气流分离移动的流线型的qu1ti3上流体边界层上的分隔物，如飞机的机翼，在平滑的流体流动中会引起故障和湍流	A separation in the boundary layer of fluid about a moving streamlined body, such as the wing of an airplane, causing a breakdown in the smooth flow of fluid and resulting in turbulence.
显露	天亮之后，他们军队的部署就会xian3lu4出来。	Daylight will reveal the disposition of their troops.
想出	他洗澡时xiang3chu1了这个主意。	The idea came to him in his bath.
修道院	xiu1dao4yuan4院长告诉他要遵守规定。	The abbot told him to obey the rules.
变色	树叶已开始bian4se4，很快就是冬天了。	The leaves have started to color; it will soon be winter.
特写	这张照片是人眼的te4xie3。	This picture is a closeness of the human eye.
痛心	她失败后感到非常tong4xin1。	She was badly cut up when she failed.
新奇	他对环境的xin1qi2感不久就淡薄了。	The novelty of his surroundings soon wore off.
高空	悬挂式滑翔机藉著暖气流在gao1kong1飞行.	Currents of warm air keep the hang-gliders aloft.
四分之一	si4 fen1zhi1 yi1是一个真分数。	One forth is a proper fraction.
藤	他用teng2杖抽断了荨麻的顶部.	He swished off the tops of the nettles with his cane.
变换	他根据情况，bian4huan4治疗方法。	He varies the treatment according to circumstances.
戏剧性	国际政治的xi4ju4xing4使她深感兴趣。	The drama of international politics interested her.
句号	哈里以辉煌的１１０击球率给本赛季划上了ju4hao4。	Harry ended this season with a splendid batting average of110.
终端	这些zhong1duan1设备都和我们的计算机主机相连。	These terminals are connected to our mainframe computer.
酒杯	他向高脚jiu3bei1里倒了一些葡萄酒。	He poured some wine into the goblet.
暗中	他装著不认识她, 其实他们an4zhong1勾结（在一起）.	He pretended not to know her but in fact they were in league (together).
平息	她的亲切ping2xi1了我的怒气。	Her tenderness soothed my anger.
胡椒粉	请把hu2jiao1fen3递给我。	Please pass me the pepper.
不妥	他向警方隐瞒实情而并未感到十分bu4tuo3.	He had/felt no serious qualms about concealing the information from the police.
中餐	zhong1can1常有米饭或面条.	Chinese food is often served with rice or noodles.
先后	临近终点时，那几匹马齐头并进，简直分不出xian1-hou4。	As the horses raced towards the finishing post, there was nothing in it.
敬佩	我jing4pei4他的勤奋。	I respect him for his diligence.
折叠	我们发现可zhe2die2的桌子使用非常方便。	We find our folding table a great convenience.
面向	卧室的窗户mian4xiang4街道.	The bedroom windows give on to the street.
住宿	把伤员安置在农家zhu4su4.	The wounded were bedded in the farmhouse.
花生酱	一瓶hua1sheng1jiang4多少钱？	How much is a jar of peanut butter?
差错	那一页的数字中有几个cha1cuo4。	There are several faults in the page of figures.
撞死	他开汽车像个疯子--不定哪天就得zhuang4si3.	He drives like a nut he'll kill himself one day.
一举一动	那男子yi1ju3-yi1dong4像个大男孩。	That man behaves like an overgrown child.
延缓	请不要为了等我们而yan2huan3吃晚饭。	Please don't wait dinner for us.
母鸡	mu3ji1的饲料不够了.	There isn't enough feed left for the hens.
暗号	an4hao4为通过岗哨而必须给出的秘密记号或口令；暗语	A secret sign or signal to be given to a sentry in order to obtain passage; a password.
刺客	他死于ci4ke4的匕首之下。	He fell a victim to the dagger of the assassin.
胜利者	将军向sheng4li4zhe3办理了移交手续。	The general handed over to the conqueror.
冒烟	我一看见mao4yan1，就发出了警报。	I gave the alarm as soon as I saw the smoke.
上山	shang4shan1时，马用力拉拽着马车的挽绳。	The horse pulled on the traces when getting up the hill.
考生	不符合这些要求的kao3sheng1不能上这所大学。	Candidates who fail to meet these requirements will not be admitted to the University.
波斯	他用一支笔在地图上标出了Bo1si1湾的位置。	He indicated the location of the Persian Gulf with a pen on the map.
钻进	猫一露面，老鼠急忙zuan1jin4自己的洞里。	The mouse scurried into its hole when the cat appeared.
止血	zhi3xue4带、压脉器一种装置，特指一紧紧环绕的绷带，通过暂时阻zhi3xue4液从四肢的较大动脉中流过而zhi3xue4	A device, typically a tightly encircling bandage, used to check bleeding by temporarily stopping the flow of blood through a large artery in a limb.
瑕疵	他在品德[名誉]上毫无xia2ci1.	His character/reputation is without (a) blemish.
质地	乱石一种zhi4di4很软以致于不须砸或劈就能被轻易截断的石头，如石灰石	A stone, such as limestone, that is soft enough to be cut easily without shattering or splitting.
半岛	莱思角加拿大纽芬兰省东南部一海角，位于亚法隆ban4dao3沿岸	A promontory of southeast Newfoundland, Canada, on the coast of the Avalon Peninsula.
肆意	si4yi4地作出粗暴的行为；纵情享受最新时尚	Indulged in outrageous behavior; indulged in all the latest fads.
募集	你能帮助我们mu4ji2款项，救济因水灾而无家可归的人吗？	Can I enlist your help in collecting money for the people made homeless by the flood?
当众	总统必须dang1zhong4宣誓就职.	The President has to be sworn in publicly.
坠毁	抢救人员冲向飞机zhui4hui3的现场。	Rescue workers rushed to the site of the plane crash.
衬	照片背面chen4上了一层纸板.	The photograph was backed with cardboard.
课本	每个学生发了一本ke4ben3。	Each student was issued with a textbook.
一对	我们隔壁住著来自美国的yi1 dui4夫妇.	Next door to us there's a couple from the USA.
旁观者	人难得生病，可是pang2guan1zhe3们却以为他势将必死，并因这一线希望而精神百倍起来。	A person seldom falls sick, but the bystander is animated with a faint hope that he will die.
生成	碳14原子氧化sheng1cheng2二氧化碳，向四周散去并与低空的大气混合。	The carbon14 atoms oxidize to carbon dioxide which gets blown about and mixed up with lower atmosphere.
失调	当前的贸易赤字表明我们的进出口贸易严重shi1tiao2.	The current trade deficit indicates a serious imbalance between our import and export trade.
据传	在数据保密学中，通过合法访问数据的进程将数ju4chuan2输给未授权的用户的过程。例如，编译程序在编译期间便可能泄漏专用程序。	In data security, the transmission of data to unauthorized users by processes with legitimate access to data. A compiler, for example, could leak a proprietary program whilst it is being compiled.
人马	厨师们在大队ren2ma3之前到了野地营地。	The cooks arrive on camp in advance of the main party.
怪事	假使《哈姆雷特》是今时写成的话，它可能会被称为《埃尔斯诺城的guai4shi4》。	If Hamlet had been written in these days it will probably have been called the strange affair at Elsinore.
更改	时刻表有可能geng1gai3.	The timetable is subject to alteration.
选美	自从她xuan3mei3获胜後，她就像活在金鱼缸中，任人参观，毫无隐私。	She has been living in a goldfish bowl since she won the beauty contest.
教皇	这位牧师被jiao4huang2指定为他的高级使节。	The priest was appointed the legate by the pope.
水下	潜水员shui3xia4工作者，尤指配有呼吸器和加重衣服的shui3xia4工作者	One that works under water, especially one equipped with breathing apparatus and weighted clothing.
杉	这条路上铺满了冷shan1针叶。	The road was covered with fir needles.
学生会	你认为xue2sheng1hui4对这些现代哲学思潮感兴趣吗？	Do you think the students will plug in to these modem philosophy trend?
重量级	你傻了, 竟敢和zhong4liang4ji2的拳击冠军寻衅闹事!	It was foolish of you to pick a fight with a heavyweightboxing champion!
叉	用cha1子插土豆.	Stick the fork into the potato.
赎罪	他已经为shu2zui4自我惩罚了，我们应该原谅他。	He had done penance for his sins; we should forgive him.
节食	他正在jie2shi2以减轻体重。	He is on a diet to reduce some weight.
太阳能	如今，我们可以利用tai4yang2neng2做很多事情。	We can use solar energy to do many things today.
主食	爱尔兰人过去用马铃薯作为zhu3shi2。	The Irish used to live on a diet of potatoes.
侵蚀	豚脊丘，陡峻的山脊由于对高斜层破碎山背的qin1shi2而形成的陡峭的山背	A sharp ridge with steeply sloping sides, produced by erosion of the broken edges of highly tilted strata.
预想	损害程度比当初yu4xiang3的要严重得多。	Damage is much greater than was at first anticipated.
攀	那小队pan1登山的北坡.	The team climbed the north face of the mountain.
煤	船在直布罗陀上mei2。	Ships coal at Gibraltar.
拘捕	这些犹太人生活在会遭到ju1bu3的恐惧之中。	The Jews lived in dread of being caught.
激起	他的不幸ji1qi3了我们的同情。	His wretchedness aroused our sympathy.
褐色	这些栗子是鲜亮的红he4se4。	These chestnuts are of bright reddish-brown.
打中	石子da3zhong4了我头部的侧面.	The stone struck me on the side of the head.
试探	这封信是一种shi4tan4，看看他如何看待这种运动。	The letter was a feeler to see how he would look upon such a movement.
马克思	资产阶级在Ma3ke4si1的理论中，所有者阶层的一员；资本家	In Marxist theory, a member of the property-owning class; a capitalist.
加以	把这条句子的各个成份jia1yi3分析。	Analyze the sentence into its constituent parts.
壁炉	bi4lu2凸出在外，伸入房间。	The fireplace came out into the room.
无理	我再也不会容忍他的wu2li3要求了。	I won't stand for his unreasonable demands any longer.
拔掉	ba2diao4塞子, 把水放掉.	Pull (out) the plug and let the water drain away.
晚报	我们已经订阅了一份wan3bao4。	We have subscribed to an evening newspaper.
静止	jing4zhi3的目标是最容易瞄准的。	A stationary target is easiest to aim at.
找出	我们得把发动机拆卸开来zhao3chu1毛病。	We'll have to strip the engine down to find the fault.
控诉	如果货物品质不好，则理应向制造商提出kong4su4。	If goods were not well made, you shall complain to the manufacturer.
全场	quan2chang3里悬挂着标语。	Slogans were hung in the hall.
多次	暴雨中出现了好duo1ci4闪电。	There were many flashes of lightning during the storm.
性行为	习惯xing4xing2wei2一种固定的行动模式，能引起神经失常或造成人格	A pattern of behavior constituting a mental disorder or personality type.
稍稍	工会被迫shao1shao1改变立场。	The union has been forced to slightly modify its position.
维也纳	人们一提到Wei2ye3na4就会联想到华尔兹圆舞曲和咖啡馆.	People connect Vienna with waltzes and coffee-houses.
即兴	妙语，俏皮话经常是ji2xing4说出的机智风趣的话语	A clever, witty remark often prompted by the occasion.
满月	昨晚是man3yue4。	Last night there was a full moon.
墨水	小男孩的手指让mo4shui3给染脏了。	The little boy stained his fingers with ink.
房门	我打开fang2men2，然后走进屋里。	I unlocked the door and went into the room.
天平	这个tian1ping2不平衡.	This pair of scales is not in equilibrium.
尘土	桌子上有一层薄薄的chen2tu3。	There is a fine layer of dust on the desk.
正要	喷气式飞机zheng4yao4起飞时出了事故。	The accident happened as the jet was about to take off.
航线	飞机没有沿通常的商业hang2xian4飞。	The plane did not fly the usual commercial route.
失礼	在葬礼上发笑或开玩笑是shi1li3的行为。	Laughing and joking are considered improper behaviors at a funeral.
起见	为了安全qi3jian4，在市内开车时速不要超过三十公里。	For safety's sake, don't drive more than 30 kilometers per hour in the city.
联欢会	我们每年举行一次大学校友lian2huan1hui4。	We hold an annual reunion of former students of the college.
方糖	请递给我一块fang1tang2。	Please pass me a cube of sugar.
容量	这库房的rong2liang4是400立方英尺。	The store- room be400 cubic feet in volume.
质问	尽管被众人zhi4wen4，但是这位领导人仍然表现出神气十足的样子。	Despite being heckled by the crowd, the leader bore himself with dignity.
晚年	她wan3nian2专事写作.	In her later years she gave herself over to writing full-time.
玷污	他的行为dian4wu1了国家的荣誉。	His action profaned the honour of his country.
腰围	她的yao1wei2是26英寸.	She has a 26-inch waist.
绳索	他们用sheng2suo3把犯人捆起来。	They tied their prisoner up with a piece of rope.
高效	工程学将科学及数学原理运用于实际用途的应用手段，如设计、制造及对gao1xiao4经济构造、机器、进程及系统进行操纵管理	The application of scientific and mathematical principles to practical ends such as the design, manufacture, and operation of efficient and economical structures, machines, processes, and systems.
驳回	法官的判决被上诉法庭bo2hui2.	The judge's decision was set aside by the Appeal Court.
来看	当地政府一位官员lai2 kan4他。	An official of the local government called to see him.
变动	这些bian4dong4皆大欢喜.	The changes were welcomed by everybody.
探测器	热tan4ce4qi4测量热量的敏感接受器	A sensory receptor that detects warmth.
耗尽	hao4jin4被损耗的状态；精疲力竭，hao4jin4	The state of being depleted; exhaustion.
毛发	护士给病人清洗皮肤、 刮去mao2fa4.	The nurse washed and shaved the patient.
残疾人	她 的新书论述can2ji5ren2的问题.	Her latest book discusses the problems of the disabled.
交替	商业周期就是淡旺期jiao1ti4。	The business cycle is a series of peaks and troughs.
运动会	什么时候举行yun4dong4hui4?	When will the sports meeting come off?
通风	我的办公室tong1feng1良好。	My office is well ventilated.
变异	bian4yi4的从标准变化来的，通常只是一些轻微的不同	Deviating from a standard, usually by only a slight difference.
脑筋	做纵横字谜游戏能锻炼nao3jin1.	Doing crosswords gives the mind some exercise.
对头	《第一滴血》这部影片只要广告做得dui4tou5，无论质量如何都是会吸引住观众的。	First Blood will attract the crowds, whatever its quality, provided that it gets played up in the right way.
矜持	她看上去像一个jin1chi2的少女。	She looks like a very demure young lady.
醉酒	这一事故可以作为zui4jiu3驾驶危害的实际教训.	Let this accident be an object lesson in the dangers of drinking and driving.
生怕	汤姆越狱後, 时时如惊弓之鸟, sheng1pa4再次被捕.	Since he escaped from gaol, Tom has been living on a razor's edge, terrified of recapture.
自尊心	这严重地伤害了她的zi4zun1xin1。	It was a severe hurt to her pride.
宇航员	载有受过训练的yu3hang2yuan2的火箭马上就要发射了。	A rocket manned by trained astronauts will launch soon.
畸形	他的脚稍有先天ji1xing2，走起路来一瘸一拐。	He was born with a slight deformity of the feet which made him limp.
沉溺	他正chen2ni4于爱情。	He is enslaved by love.
大笑	最初她只是微笑，後来才放声da4xiao4。	First of all she just smiled, then she started to laugh.
重力	流体运动由zhong4li4等外力引起的流体运动	Fluid motion caused by an external force such as gravity.
锁门	你没suo3men2，太粗心了。	It was careless of you to leave the door unlocked.
责任心	她是一个有ze2ren4xin1的教师。	She is a conscientious teacher.
增进	他们把车厢上面的中央部分打开以zeng1jin4空气的流通。	They increased ventilation by opening the top center part of the carriage window.
终点站	国外游客都想访问一下缆车的zhong1dian3zhan4——渔民之埠。	Fisherman's Wharf, a place all foreigners want to see, is at the end of the ride.
副本	原稿已失, 这是fu4ben3.	The original manuscript has been lost; this is a copy.
哑巴	【谚】ya3ba5狗最危险。	Dumb dogs are dangerous.
大队	da4dui4花了６０００元钱买了一台磨面机。	The brigade bought a flour-milling machine for6000 yuan.
飞舞	当一束光线穿进暗淡的房间时，我们可以看到空气中有许多小颗粒在fei1wu3。	We can see many molecules flying in the air when a sunbeam penetrated the dark room.
药丸	服下这些yao4wan2可保你睡一宿好觉.	These pills should ensure you a good night's sleep.
冒昧	mao4mei4，放肆放肆地傲慢或令人不愉快的行为或语言；厚颜无耻	Behavior or language that is boldly arrogant or offensive; effrontery.
下方	下的处于xia4fang1的或向下生长的	Located beneath or directed downward.
低温	这种食品应di1wen1保存。	The food should be kept at low temperature.
海峡	英国和法国之间隔著英吉利hai3xia2.	England is separated from France by the Channel.
露天	采石场通过挖掘、切割或爆破岩石来获取石料的lu4tian1坑道或洞	An open excavation or pit from which stone is obtained by digging, cutting, or blasting.
长远	从chang2yuan3看, 物价肯定要涨.	In the long run pricesare bound to rise.
宣泄	那些孩子在操场上玩, xuan1xie4过剩的精力.	The children were out in the playground letting off steam.
名词	形容词的作用是描述或增加ming2ci2的意思。	The function of an adjective is to describe or add to the meaning of a noun.
揭	这个盒子的盖jie1不起来了。	The top of this box won't lift(off).
老化	lao3hua4；熟化；陈化使具有老年特点和特征的人工过程	An artificial process for imparting the characteristics and properties of age.
保险柜	您可以将您的贵重物品放在旅馆的bao3xian3gui4里。	You may deposit your valuables in the hotel safe.
色素	蓝色染料，蓝色颜料加上这种色彩的se4su4或颜料	A pigment or dye imparting this hue.
搞好	你永远应该以gao3hao3你的工作为目的。	You should always aim at doing your job well.
南非	克鲁格金币Nan2fei1共和国发行的一盎司金币	A one-ounce gold coin of the Republic of South Africa.
听取	这位神父可ting1qu3用英语和法语的告解.	The priest will hear confessions in English and French.
嗅	那狗xiu4出有老鼠的气味。	The dog scented a rat.
书本	这个婴儿打开shu1ben3彷佛他会念书。	The baby opened the book as if he were able to read.
袍	女王在仪式过後脱去了王pao2.	The Queen disrobed after the ceremony.
机车	一辆ji1che1沿着铁道隆隆地驶去。	A locomotive pounded down the railway track.
会场	与会者太多, hui4chang3扩大到街上了.	The meeting overflowed into the streets.
例行	当数据从一个设备传送到另一个设备时，用于补偿数据流速率差或事件发生时间差的一种li4xing2程序或存储器。	A routine or storage used to compensate for a difference in rate of flow of data, or time of occurrence of events, when transferring data from one device to another.
法规	新的fa3gui1已得到国王的批准。	The new law has received the royal assent.
分局	税务局：这里是涉外fen1ju2。	Tax official: This is the foreign tax bureau.
标语	一条biao1yu3在黑板正上方。	A slogan is over the blackboard.
格雷	Ge2lei2在一小块地下开始种花，如今他的生意确实十分红火，英格兰各地都有他的花店。	Gray started growing flowers on a small piece of land. Now he has really made it big and owns flower shops all over England.
含蓄	含意；暗流；内在性质隐含的或han2xu4的倾向或意义；潜在势力	An underlying or implied tendency or meaning; an undercurrent.
毕生	一项事业需要我们bi4sheng1的奉献。	A career needs our devotion all our lives.
班机	你乘的ban1ji1什麽时候到?	What time does your flight get in?
堡垒	bao3lei3最容易从内部攻破。	The easiest way to capture a fortress is from within.
阳性	德语中有三性: yang2xing4、 阴性和中性.	There are three genders in German: masculine, feminine and neuter.
半决赛	我队已有资格进入ban4jue2sai4.	Our team has qualified for the semi-final.
解毒	jie3du2剂一种药物复合剂，以前用于jie3du2	A medicinal compound formerly used as an antidote for poison.
堪称	在交响乐曲的创作上，他kan1cheng1技艺大师。	In symphonic writing he is the master craftsman.
交配	骡子是公驴和母马jiao1pei4而生的杂种动物.	A mule is a hybrid of a male donkey and a female horse.
甜食	我非常偏爱tian2shi2。	I'm very partial to sweet foods.
转角	为首的那个自行车手很快就要从那个zhuan3jiao3处绕过来。	The leading cyclist will be coming round that corner any minute now!
蜥蜴	xi1yi4和蛇是冷血动物。	Lizards and snakes are cold-blooded animals.
报价	他欣然接受了我的bao4jia4。	He pounced on my offer.
差点儿	看，你这是往哪里走？cha4dian3r5把我撞倒了	Can't you look where you're going? You nearly knocked me over!
推断	tui1duan4出的明显结论是她有罪.	It's an obvious deduction that she is guilty.
摇晃	渡船摇yao2huang4晃, 他感到恶心.	The sway of the ferry made him feel sick.
支持者	他一生都是教会的热心zhi1chi2zhe3。	He has been a pillar of the Church all his life.
铜牌	我有一枚有纪念意义的tong2pai2。	I have a monumental brass medal.
求职	经理收到了二十份qiu2zhi2申请书。	The manager received twenty applications for the post.
反倒	我再一考虑，fan3dao4觉得可能还是她对。	On further reflection, I saw that she might be right, after all.
监护人	法定jian1hu4ren2应该维护这个孩子的利益.	The legal guardian must act on behalf of the child.
退回	你或许有权要求tui4hui2去年你交付的部分税金。	You may be entitled to reclaim some of the tax you paid last year.
近年	国际恐怖主义并不是jin4nian2才有的现象。	International terrorism is not just a recent phenomenon.
教主	那个好心的大jiao4zhu3负责我们这个教区。	That kind archbishop is responsible for our church district.
猫头鹰	mao1tou2ying1白天睡觉晚上工作。	Owls sleep by day and work at night.
逼真	画中的苹果显得多bi1zhen1啊！	What a realistic looking apple in the picture!
一行	你们yi1xing2有多少人？	How many people are in your party?
盖子	这果酱罐的gai4zi5拧不开.	The lid of this jam pot won't unscrew.
缝合	护士在feng2he2伤口前先清洁一下伤口。	The nurse cleansed the wound before stitching it.
体育场	人群慢慢从ti3yu4chang3散去.	The crowds drifted away from the stadium.
蒙蒙	她泪眼meng2meng2，几乎不能认出自己的儿子。	She could hardly recognize her son through the mist of tears that filled her eyes.
巡	那个贼被旅店的xun2察职员抓住了.	The thief was caught by the hotel dick.
来宾	这旅馆可供达500位lai2bin1住宿.	This hotel can accommodate up to 500 guests.
触及	她把玻璃杯送到嘴边[用嘴唇chu4ji2玻璃杯].	She set the glass to her lips/her lips to the glass.
耽搁	他预知自己的旅程会被恶劣天气dan1ge5。	He foresaw that his journey would be delayed by bad weather.
透支	银行经理说，为了使我从幻想中清醒过来并控制我的开支，将不给我有tou4zhi1的便利，并还将收回我的支票卡。	The bank manager said that, in order to bring me down to earth and control my spending, I would have no overdraft facility and my cheque card would be withdrawn.
孤寂	哥特式小说着重描写怪诞、恐怖和gu1ji4的小说	A novel in a style emphasizing the grotesque, mysterious, and desolate.
迫使	客观情况po4shi3我们改变了计划.	Circumstances forced us to change our plans.
滩	她擦 去浴室地面上一tan1tan1的水.	She mopped up the pools of water on the bathroom floor.
骚动	一会儿工夫sao1dong4平息了下来。	Presently the tumult died down.
万千	他感慨wan4qian1，用力握了一下她的手，离开了她。	Overcome with emotion, he pressed her hand and left her.
附上	请填写随函fu4shang4之表格.	Please fill in the form enclosed herewith.
拆开	你本来应该有足够的常识，在chai1kai1电线之前先把电源切断。	You should have had enough sense to turn off the electricity supply before disconnecting the wires.
至关重要	经济知识对于理解这个问题是zhi4guan1zhong4yao4的。	A knowledge of economics is fundamental to any understanding of this problem.
增援	前来zeng1yuan2的装甲部队受到空袭的牵制。	Armour coming up in support was tied down by air strikes.
水仙	黄shui3xian1是shui3xian1属植物.	The daffodil belongs to the genus Narcissus'.
外语	学习wai4yu3离不开好的词典。	A good dictionary is indispensable for learning a foreign language.
招惹	你zhao1re3那条狗, 它会咬你的.	If you provoke the dog, it will bite you.
深色	我希望我能穿一件shen1se4的衣服把这个正式场合应付过去。	I hope I can get by in a dark suit for this formal occasion.
赛跑	他每天早晨花两个小时练习sai4pao3。	Every morning he spent two hours training for the race.
受够	我shou4gou4了，所以辞职不干了。	I've had enough, so I quit.
到时候	dao4 shi2hou5树就落叶、 花就掉瓣.	Trees shed their leaves and flowers shed their petals.
侵袭	这种植物不容易受病害qin1xi2。	The plant is not susceptible to disease.
玛雅	蒂卡尔危地马拉北部的一座Ma3ya3废城，曾是Ma3ya3城市中最大也可能最古老的一座。挖掘和修复该废墟的工作始于1956年	A ruined Mayan city of northern Guatemala. It was the largest of the Mayan cities and may also be the oldest. Excavation and restoration of the ruins began in1956.
来得	今年复活节lai2de5早.	Easter comes early this year.
芙蓉	夏季的水塘中，fu2rong2盛开。	Lotus flowers are in full bloom in the pond in summer.
香料	甜馅由切得很碎的苹果、葡萄干、xiang1liao4、肉，有时加朗姆酒或白兰地合成的混合物，尤用作馅饼的馅	A mixture, as of finely chopped apples, raisins, spices, meat, and sometimes rum or brandy, used especially as a pie filling.
外贸	这是否意味着贵国正在实施新的wai4mao4政策？	Does it mean that you be apply a new foreign trade policy?
摩西	Mo2xi1率领以色列的子民离开了埃及。	Moses led the children of Israel out of the Egypt.
谋生	生活在没有树木的大草原上的人们怎样mou2sheng1呢？	How do people make a living in the steppe?
弄清	警方急切地想nong4qing1这一神秘事件的真相。	The police is eager to get to the bottom of this mystery.
鼻孔	他不喜欢自己的宽大的bi2kong3。	He dislikes his wide nostrils.
栅栏	场后围栏用于阻止球被投出或打出比赛场地的一种屏障或zha4lan5，如在棒球比赛中	A screen or fence used to prevent a ball from being thrown or hit far out of a playing area, as in baseball.
受宠若惊	还从没有一个出版商主动来与我接洽，这种屈尊有点让我shou4 chong3 ruo4 jing1。	I had never been spontaneously approached by a publisher and such condescension rather turned my head.
费力	要我承认错了，是很fei4li4的。	It was painful to admit that I was wrong.
把柄	扫帚梆在一块儿的枝条、干草或刺毛，缚在一根棍或ba3bing3上，作清扫之用	A bunch of twigs, straw, or bristles bound together, attached to a stick or handle, and used for sweeping.
美洲	据说哥伦布于1492年发现了Mei3zhou1。	Columbus is said to have discovered America in 1492.
除外	希尔夫人不会客, 但近亲chu2wai4.	Mrs Hill is not at home to anyone except close relatives.
一号	他被定为yi1hao4种子选手。	He was seeded number 1.
明了	第一章阐ming2liao3她的研究领域.	The first chapter delimits her area of research.
重罪	酗酒令人如此糊涂。而人本来就是糊涂，所以酗酒无非就等于是以罚款免人zhong4zui4罢了。	Drinking make such fool of people, and people is such fool to begin with, that it's compound a felony.
冰球	她最喜爱的运动是滑雪, 其次是bing1qiu2.	Next to skiing her favourite sport was ice-hockey.
神灵	他们的谈话中充满了渎犯shen2ling2的言词。	Their conversation was full of blasphemy.
银行业	财政管理对资金、yin2hang2ye4、投资和信贷的管理	The management of money, banking, investments, and credit.
护卫	hu4wei4队，仪仗队，护送者陪同别人，进行引领、保护或表示尊敬的一个或若干人	One or more persons accompanying another to guide, protect, or show honor.
公款	部长被查出挪用了gong1kuan3。	The minister was found to have appropriated government money.
走红	那位新近zou3hong2的男演员在这部新影片中扮演重要角色。	The latest popular actor is featured in this new film.
问话	那个嫌疑犯被带到警察局wen4hua4.	The suspect was taken to the police station for questioning.
石榴	我已经喝了一杯shi2liu5汁了。	I've drunk a cup of pomegranate juice.
骨骼	钙对我们的gu3ge2有益。	Calcium is beneficial to our bones.
患有	她huan4you3消化系统疾病。	She suffered from digestive trouble.
遍地	bian4di4野草丛生.	The weeds grew in wanton profusion.
紊乱	嗜眠病以突然的和不由自主的，虽然通常短暂的深度睡眠发作，有时伴随有麻痹和幻觉为特征的一种wen3luan4	A disorder characterized by sudden and uncontrollable, though often brief, attacks of deep sleep, sometimes accompanied by paralysis and hallucinations.
说教	动物优于人类的几点有：没有神学家为它们shuo1jiao4，殡殓不费分文，更无一个对其遗嘱提出诉讼者。	Animals have these advantages over man: they have no theologians to instruct them, their funerals cost them nothing, and no one starts lawsuits over their wills.
上前	以前用以保护shang4qian2去围攻的士兵的活动的屏面或盾牌	A mobile screen or shield formerly used to protect besieging soldiers.
念书	即使他失败了，却仍然用功nian4shu1。	He studied none the less hard because he had failed.
喋喋不休	那些孩子们die2die2 bu4 xiu1的说话声使人心烦。	The children's constant chatter was irritating.
老乡	lao3xiang1们告诉我爸爸，他的处境很危险。	My father was warned by the villagers that he was in great danger.
迎合	商店为了ying2he2“自己动手”的狂热心理，为消费者提供可以在家里组装的零件。	Shops cater for the do-it- yourself craze by offering consumers bits and pieces which they can assemble at home.
资本主义	他的论点的核心是zi1ben3 zhu3yi4不能成功.	The essence of his argument is that capitalism cannot succeed.
炉子	lu2zi5上锅里的水一直开著.	There's a saucepan boiling away on the stove.
原子弹	yuan2zi3dan4是20世纪物理学的产物。	The atom bomb is the offspring of the 20th century physics.
海龟	海豹、 hai3gui1、 企鹅均有鳍状肢.	Seals, turtles and penguins have flippers.
揭发	jie1fa1了反总统的阴谋可能救了他一命。	The exposure of the plot against the President probably saved his life.
一眼	她羞怯地从她的扇子后面看了他yi1 yan3。	She glanced shyly at him from behind her fan.
推销员	那个tui1xiao1yuan2试图说服她买他的东西。	The salesman tried to persuade her to buy his goods.
霉	mei2和蘑菇都是真菌。	Mildew and mushrooms are fungi.
擦干	一定要用毛巾把孩子们彻底ca1gan1，他们浑身湿透了，说不定会着凉的。	Do towel the children down very thoroughly, they're wet to the skin and might catch cold!
暴雨	头一天下过一场bao4yu3，这时空气仍然很清新。	The air was still fresh following a downpour the day before.
民主党	Min2zhu3dang3希望在下次大选中重新执政。	The democrats hope to get back at the next election.
许可证	｀怎样申请xu3ke3zheng4?＇｀你得到问讯处打听.＇	`How do I apply for this licence?' `You want inquiries.'
有待	我基本上同意你的建议, 但是有几个小问题you3dai4商榷.	Basically I agree with your proposals, but there are a few small points I'd like to discuss.
准许	对於科学家应该zhun3xu3很大的研究自由。	One should permit a scientist a lot of latitude in his research.
北边	我不知道地址，但地点是离SheratonHotelbei3bian5两条街的地方。	I do not know the address, but it's two block north of the sheraton hotel.
无可奈何	她争执一番後, wu2ke3 nai4he2地缴纳了罚金.	She paid the fine under protest.
小车	手泵式四轮xiao3che1由一个小马达或一台手泵驱动的小型无篷路轨车	A small open railroad car propelled by a hand pump or a small motor.
雪橇	皮靴固定装置为使滑雪靴牢固而在xue3qiao1上设置的扣拴	Fastenings on a ski for securing the boot.
探亲	他每两年有一次tan4qin1假。	He gets home leave every two years.
主机	这些终端设备都和我们的计算机zhu3ji1相连。	These terminals are connected to our mainframe computer.
抗战	即使在国家被击败之後，游击队仍在山里与入侵者kang4zhan4。	Even after the country is defeated, partisan fight the invader in the hill.
柔顺	友善的，和蔼的性情体谅的或和蔼的；和善的，rou2shun4的	Considerate or kindly in disposition; amiable and tender.
无用	继续这种无聊的争辩是wu2yong4的。	It's useless to continue such a barren argument.
识字	小孩通过图画shi2zi4很好。	It is a good idea for children to learn to read by way of pictures.
尺度	用多半chi3du4衡量，1988年对波音公司来说都是极好的一年。这一规模庞大的航空公司不但在销售方面创下记录，并积压了大量订单。	By most measures,1988 has been an excellent year for the Boeing Company. The giant aerospace concern has racked up record sales and has a huge backlog of orders.
缩水	这件羊毛衫洗后会suo1shui3吗？	Will this woolen sweater shrink when washed?
最先	是她zui4xian1使用的这种药品。	She pioneered the use of the drug.
大西洋	飞机在Da4xi1yang2中部飞行时, 其中一个发动机出了故障.	One of the plane's engines gave out in mid-Atlantic.
曙光	鸟的歌声是shu3guang1从大地反响过去的回声。	The bird-song is the echo of the morning light back from the earth.
跳伞	tiao4san3者大胆的冒险动作令人赞叹不已.	The daring exploits of the parachutists were much admired.
喧闹	穿过敞开的窗户传来对那些xuan1nao4学生的责骂声.	Abuse rained down on the noisy students from the open windows.
确凿	出示que4zao2的证据之后，对方不得不作出让步。	After being shown conclusive evidence, the other side had to back down.
爆破	危险! 正在bao4po4!	Danger! Blasting in progress!
由衷	you2zhong1的称赞可鼓舞一个人的精神。	A sincere compliment boosts one's morale.
影星	这位ying3xing1抵达该城市的消息一传开，大批的请柬雪片似的向她飞来。	Invitations showered on the film star as soon as her arrival in the city was known.
滋养	营养品，zi1yang3物营养的来源，尤指食物中的营养成分	A source of nourishment, especially a nourishing ingredient in a food.
毒害	我们的儿童是否受著空气中铅的du2hai4？	Are our children being poisoned by lead in the atmosphere?
文书	wen2shu1组长负责监督该部门的工作.	The chief clerk supervises the work of the department.
母子	mu3zi3均平安.	Both mother and baby are doing well.
闻名	这个镇子引以为荣的是有个wen2ming2於世的美术馆.	The town boasts a world-famous art gallery.
掌管	我妻子把一切都交给我zhang3guan3。	My wife put everything under my charge.
信托	甘受贿赂，贪污腐化易受贿赂或腐败的影响性，如在使用不诚实的收益的xin4tuo1状况时	Susceptibility to bribery or corruption, as in the use of a position of trust for dishonest gain.
内战	总统死後全国陷入了nei4zhan4.	The country (was) plunged into civil war after the death of the President.
核武器	我们的最终目标是消除所有he2wu3qi4。	Our ultimate objective is the removal of all nuclear weapons.
回程	hui2cheng2用的时间比平时长, 因为飞机不能飞越战区.	The journey back took longer than normal, because the plane could not overfly the war zone.
猛然	飞机meng3ran2俯冲致使驾驶员昏厥.	The plane dived suddenly, causing the pilot to black out.
臣	这位封chen2宣誓他将永远忠诚于国王。	The vassal swore that he would be loyal to the king forever.
吹嘘	他总chui1xu1自己在网球场上的杰出技术，可是帕姆毫不费力地连续数局败他，使他马上威风扫地。	He was boasting as usual about his prowess on the tennis court, but Pam soon cut him down to size by beating him effortlessly in straight sets.
人行道	几个行人在结冰的ren2xing2dao4上滑倒了.	Several pedestrians had come to grief on the icy pavement.
铲子	只要给他一个桶子和一把chan3zi5, 他就高兴极了!	Just give him a bucket and spade and he's in seventh heaven!
天线	接收节目前，你应该先装tian1xian4。	You should fix the television antenna before receiving programs.
血缘	xue4yuan2鉴定血统的联系；来历	A line of descent; derivation.
理发师	他是一个多面手，既是修理工，也是木匠，既是一个li3fa4shi1，也是一个好裁缝。	He is a man of parts; he is either a repairman, or a carpenter, either a barber or a good tailor.
献身	医生xian4shen1于医治病人。	A doctor's life is consecrated to curing sick people.
军火	战争因jun1huo3不足而失败。	The war was lost because of a shortage of munitions.
莫扎特	Mo4zha1te4毕竟不仅是作曲家，而且是空前的最大戏剧天才之一。	Mozart was, after all, not a mere purveyor of music but one of the supreme dramatic geniuses of all time.
话剧	那hua4ju4演了两个星期就停演了.	The play folded within a fortnight.
政治家	这位zheng4zhi4jia1被任命为财政部长。	The politician was appointed as the Minister of Finance.
挣脱	狗拴著链子, 是怎麽zheng4tuo1开的呢?	The dog was chained, so how did it get free?
冷藏	有些水果根本就不能leng3cang2。	Some fruits don't freeze well at all.
厂家	把这些次货退还给chang3jia1.	Send these faulty goods back to the manufacturer.
航海	作为水手获得了hang2hai3的实践经验	Gained practical experience of sailing as a deck hand.
精疲力尽	劳动体力或脑力的运用，尤指出现困难或jing1pi2-li4jin4时；工作	Physical or mental exertion, especially when difficult or exhausting; work.
对白	这个作家不太擅长写dui4bai2。	The writer is not very good at writing dialogues.
地雷	di4lei2，水雷一种用来摧毁敌军部队、船舰、碉堡或装备的爆破装置，通常安放在隐蔽处，由于接触、靠近或定时而引爆	An explosive device used to destroy enemy personnel, shipping, fortifications, or equipment, often placed in a concealed position and designed to be detonated by contact, proximity, or a time fuse.
衣着	约翰感到难以为一家大小置备yi1zhuo2。	John felt it hard to rig out his family.
盗贼	他们在窗户上加了窗条以防dao4zei2进入.	They fitted bars to their windows to stop burglars getting in.
参军	一年以前，他can1jun1了。	He joined the army a year ago.
长裤	杰克匆匆脱下衬衫和chang2ku4，跳进凉水中。	Jack threw off his shirt and trousers and plunged into the cool water.
加点	再jia1dian3油，你就可以到达顶端了。	One more effort, and you will get to the top.
虚度	不要xu1du4时光。	Don't loiter your time away.
吸气	医生叫我xi1qi4然後（再）慢慢地呼出.	The doctor told me to breathe in and then breathe out (again) slowly.
野营	这家商店供应各种ye3ying2用品。	The shop furnishes everything that is needed for camping.
瘤	这个liu2不是恶性的.	The growth is not malignant.
变性	bian4xing4特定的组织、细胞或器官随着受伤、疾病或年老而导致的相应的功能的削弱或丧失，而形成的逐渐的变质	Gradual deterioration of specific tissues, cells, or organs with corresponding impairment or loss of function, caused by injury, disease, or aging.
极力	她ji2li4强调该计画的好处.	She was at pains to stress the benefits of the scheme.
下水	她教起书来就像鸭子xia4shui3般轻而易举.	She's taken to teaching like a duck to water.
计算器	我们用电脑取代了老式的加法ji4suan4qi4。	We've replaced the old adding machine with a computer.
防线	我方坦克突破了敌人的fang2xian4.	Our tanks have breached the enemy defences.
山洞	小的隐居处所狭小、简陋的住所，比如隐士的shan1dong4或棚屋	A small, humble abode, such as a hermit's cave or hut.
雇主	罢工者与gu4zhu3已达成协议。	The strikers have reached a settlement with the employers.
阿司匹林	服下的a1si1pi3lin2药片很快见效了。	The aspirins soon took effect.
堕胎	在一次教会举办的专题座谈会上，有数百名妇女出席讨论duo4tai1问题。	At a church rap session a few hundred women came to talk about their abortions.
神殿	我摸过巴台农shen2dian4中楣石柱的复制品，我意识到向前冲锋的的雅典武士的匀称和谐美。	I have felt copies of Parthenon Friezes, and I have sensed the rhythmic beauty of charging Athenian warriors.
县城	xian4cheng2离这有百儿八十里。	The county town is a hundred li or so away from here.
逗留	那个寄居者在威尔士已经dou4liu2了两个星期。	The sojourner has been in Wales for two weeks.
发电机	我们有一台万一断电时使用的备用fa1dian4ji1。	We have an auxiliary generator in case of power cuts.
头顶	一颗子弹从他tou2ding3上呼啸而过。	A bullet whistled past his head.
脚踏实地	布莱克太太是个梦想者，而她的丈夫是个jiao3 ta4 shi2di4的人。	Mrs Black was a dreamer, but her husband was a man with his feet on the ground.
牙买加	乔治敦开曼群岛国的首都，在西印度群岛中Ya2mai3jia1西面的大加曼岛上。它是一个国际性的金融中心。人口7，617	The capital of the Cayman Islands, on Grand Cayman in the West Indies west of Jamaica. It is an international banking center. Population, 7,617.
挤出	小职员迪克很快就被排ji3chu1了这家店铺。	Dick, the junior clerk, was soon shouldered out of the shop.
把门	锁锈住了，我们得ba3men2砸开。	The lock was rusty, so we had to smash the door open.
巫术	巫婆搬弄wu1shu4的女人；巫婆	A woman who practices sorcery; a witch.
山路	狭隘的shan1lu4崎岖不平。	The mountain path is narrow and rugged.
术语	别尽用那种专门shu4yu3--用普通的词语解释吧.	Don't use all that technical lingo try and explain in plain English.
仙人掌	xian1ren2zhang3生长在干旱地区。	Cacti live in dry regions.
追问	那位发言者遭到了连珠炮般的zhui1wen4。	The speaker was bombarded with questions.
抬高	史密斯悄悄地向地向拍卖人做手势，然后把出价又tai2gao1了1，000元。	Smith signaled the auctioneer quietly and kicked the bid up another thousand.
迷住	我们被美丽的景色mi2zhu5了。	The beauty of the scene filled us with enchantment.
神情	她的眼里流露出受委屈的shen2qing2.	Her eyes took on a hurt expression.
庇护	古代的bi4hu4特权转移到了基督教的教堂。	The ancient privilege of sanctuary was transferred to the Christian temple.
樱花	我喜欢ying1hua1。	I like oriental cherry.
轻柔	走廊的某处响起qing1rou2悦耳的铃声。	A musical bell softly sounded somewhere in the passageway.
复活节	今年的Fu4huo2jie2来得早.	Easter falls early this year.
点菜	询问就餐者是否准备dian3cai4了。	Asking if a diner is ready to order.
打下	重工业的稳固发展为这些进展da3xia4了基础.	These developments are underpinned by solid progress in heavy industry.
上星期	我母亲shang4xing1qi1没有给花园里浇水。	My mother didn't water the garden last week.
未经	wei4jing1委员会批准，我们不能动工。	We can't start building without the council's approval.
手指头	就用shou3zhi3tou5指着名单往下看，看是不是所有的人的名字都在上面，好吗？	Just run your finger down the list and see if all the names are there, will you?
搭乘	我可以顺路da1cheng2你的车吗?	Can I hitch a ride with you?
拐角	我们以高速度绕过guai3jiao3.	We rounded the corner at high speed.
篮子	小女孩凝视着在lan2zi5里互相翻来滚去的小猫。	The little girl stared at the little cats tumbling over each other in their basket.
矿工	这位即将退休的kuang4gong1把风钻移交给他的接班人。	The retiring miner delivered his pneumatic drill over to his successor.
北极熊	bei3ji2xiong2虽然会游泳，但也是陆栖动物。	Although they can swim, the polar bears are terrestrial animals.
顺路	我可以shun4lu4搭乘你的车吗?	Can I hitch a ride with you?
红旗	是把这面hong2qi2打开的时候了。	It's time to shake out the red flag.
大局	因为选举结果多已公布, 可谓da4ju2已定.	Now that most of the election results have been declared, it's all over bar the shouting.
难民	有许多来自那个国家的nan4min2。	There are many refugees from that country.
会谈	两国总理的hui4tan2将于下月举行。	The talks between the two premiers will be held next month.
何等	他们是he2deng3竭尽全力来完成这一任务啊！	How they laid about them to fulfill the task!
成家	吉姆的子女都cheng2jia1了，他成天都呆在家里不出门。	Jim's children are married and he stays at home all the time.
遭罪	一想到叫孩子zao1zui4我心里就难受。	It turns me up to think of children being made to suffer.
车轮	che1lun2在泥路上留下凹痕。	Wheels leave grooves in dirt roads.
法定	法院将fa3ding4损害赔偿金判给了她.	The court adjudged legal damages to her.
上吊	她的耳朵shang4diao4着巨大的耳环。	Huge earrings dangled from her ears.
岔口	走到cha4kou3处向左拐.	Go up to the fork and turn left.
上将	新公路shang4jiang4没有十字路口，而代之以过街桥和立交桥。	Cross-roads will not exist on these new highways, but will be replaced by bridges and flyovers.
病症	精神变态者一个有反社会人格bing4zheng4的人尤指有侵犯性、变态、犯罪或不道德行为的人	A person with an antisocial personality disorder, especially one manifested in aggressive, perverted, criminal, or amoral behavior.
千辛万苦	经过qian1xin1-wan4ku3这部词典才终於得以问世。	It's been a long haul but at last this dictionary is published.
突袭	将军推测说敌人将于今天晚上tu1xi2我们。	The general conjectures that the enemy will launch an attack against us this night.
不大	他们bu4da4愿意帮忙。	They were very reluctant to help.
擦伤	他割破和ca1shang1了几个地方。	He suffered a few cuts and scrapes.
清香	我可以闻到雨后鲜花的qing1xiang1。	I can smell the fragrance of flowers after showers.
高处	他失足自十英尺gao1chu4跌了下来.	He slipped and fell ten feet.
扭伤	他跳远时niu3shang1了左踝。	He hurt his left ankle in the broad jump.
总的来说	zong3de5lai2shuo1，我很喜欢这本书。	On the whole, I like the book very much.
燃起	他们ran2qi3篝火防止野兽接近.	They lit a fire to keep wild animals off.
调理	垫版印刷过程中的一个准备步骤，即通过tiao2li3和平整版面以确保印刷清晰	The operation of preparing a form for printing by adjusting and leveling the plates to ensure a clear impression.
功力	你估计这马达gong1li4有多大？""""约为十二马力。""	What would you rate the engine at? "" ""About12 horse power.""
实况	我正想把shi2kuang4告诉他；但他打断了我的话。	I was trying to tell him what really happened, but he cut me short.
闲置	好客的主人很快为尊贵的客人腾空了xian2zhi4着的房间。	The hospitable host had his spare room emptied very quickly for the honoured guest.
百分	天才的bai3fen1之一是灵感，bai3fen1之九十九是血汗。	Genius is one per cent inspiration and ninety- nine per cent perspiration.
麦迪逊	Mai4di2xun4美国威斯康星州首府，位于该州的中南部，密尔沃基的西边。它于1836年被选定作为该州的首府并在同年移民于此。威斯康星大学（建于1848年）的主要部分就在这里。人口191，262	The capital of Wisconsin, in the south-central part of the state west of Milwaukee. It was chosen as territorial capital in1836 and settled the same year. The main branch of the University of Wisconsin(founded1848) is here. Population, 191,262.
假冒	他企图将这种酒jia3mao4成法国酒，而事实上此酒来自共同市场以外的地方。	He tried to pass off the wine as french, when in fact it come from outside the common market.
出版社	chu1ban3she4侵犯了他的版权。	The publishing house infringed his copyright.
木板	这艘帆船的甲板是用厚mu4ban3制作的。	The deck of the sailing ship was made of thick planks.
避难所	他们把自己的家变成了无家可归的孤儿们的bi4nan4suo3。	They have made their home a haven for the homeless orphans.
黑手党	他意识到hei1shou3dang3要来报复他。	He thinks the Mafia are out to get him.
丢下	差劲……我刚刚开始认为他有潜力，他却diu1xia4一切转到别处工作了。	Darn...just when I start think he have potential, he just drop everything and took another job elsewhere.
差事	我是专程来办一件chai1shi5的.	I've come on a special errand.
少见	这样的天才现在很shao3jian4。	It is rare to find such a genius nowadays.
手榴弹	＂一枚shou3liu2dan4意外地发生了爆炸，接着是一片混乱，使我不知所措。＂	A hand grenade exploded by accident and I got lost in the ensuing confusion.
炒菜	我喜欢用马铃薯chao3cai4。	I like to cook dishes with potatoes.
落叶	luo4ye4盘旋著飘到了地上.	The falling leaf spiralled to the ground.
口语	kou3yu3体kou3yu3化或kou3yu3用法	Colloquial style or quality.
床垫	木屑chuang2dian4填满草杆或木屑的一床薄垫子	A thin mattress filled with straw or sawdust.
自立	她有非凡的zi4li4的精神和坚韧不拔的精神。	She have an unusual degree of self-reliance and mental toughness.
农药	nong2yao4，农用化学品用来增加作物产量的化学品，如激素、杀菌剂、杀虫剂	A chemical, such as a hormone, a fungicide, or an insecticide, that improves the production of crops.
此处	在结构分析中，研究形状和格式的科学。ci3chu4指对模块层次和组织的结构的研究。	In structured analysis, the study of shapes and forms, herein with respect to the structure of modular hierarchies and organizations.
水池	水（从贮shui3chi2）缓缓流出.	The water slowly emptied (from the cistern).
招手	她zhao1shou3要我跟著她.	She beckoned (to) me (to follow).
数百	这个种植园里有shu4bai3名奴隶。	There were hundreds of slaves in the plantation.
做菜	整套房间都弥漫著zuo4cai4的气味.	The smell of cooking permeates (through) the flat.
孤注一掷	公司绝不愿将自己的信誉gu1zhu4 yi1 zhi4。	The company would do anything but risk their prestige at stake.
迪斯科	可是我在一家di2si5ke1舞会上亲眼看到他，千真万确，他在和一个年龄只他一半大的姑娘跳舞。	But I saw him myself in a disco as large as life, dancing with a girl half his age.
交错	她使她的手指和我的手指jiao1cuo4。	She interlaced her fingers with mine.
出台	一个新规则很快就要chu1tai2了。	A new rule will soon come into being.
眼力	你的yan3li4不错。	You've made a good choice.
指派	哨站，岗位如卫兵或哨兵的zhi3pai4的站岗位置	An assigned position or station, as of a guard or sentry.
字体	印刷zi4ti3太小，我不带眼镜就看不清。	The print is too small for me to read without glasses.
鞭	这个奴隶被bian1打死。	The slave was strapped to death.
链子	链，带系在表或手镯上以防其丢失的小lian4zi5或带子	A small chain or band attached to a watch or bracelet to prevent loss.
紧握	他jin3wo4她的手。	He held her hand in a firm clasp.
淋浴	我洗过lin2yu4后觉得爽快了一些。	I took a shower and it braced me up a bit.
黄豆	请把huang2dou4捣成粉。	Please pound up the soybeans.
史前	shi3qian2生物化学对生物化学以及生物化学过程的发展和演变的研究	The study of the development and evolution of biochemicals and biochemical processes.
看错	是我kan4cuo4了，还是这些确实是你们在那个花盆里栽的兰花？	Do my eyes deceive me, or are those real orchids you have growing in that pot?
盎司	一ang4si1糖可以供给多少卡热量？	How many calories can an ounce of sugar supply?
放荡	他的fang4dang4的行为使他的母亲极为苦恼。	His wild behavior was a great distress to his mother.
绷带	护士给我受伤的胳臂裹上beng1dai4。	The nurse wound a bandage round my wounded arm.
南边	印度在中国的nan2bian5。	India is to the south of China.
日元	在今日的交易中, ri4yuan2已升值到历史的最高水平.	The yen hit a record high in trading today.
权益	人们的quan2yi4是受法律保护的。	The rights of the people are protected by law.
水里	把那棵植物（在shui3li5）浸泡几分钟.	Immerse the plant (in water) for a few minutes.
工夫	你下了这麽大gong1fu5, 一定能考及格.	You've done so much work that you're bound to pass the exam.
平方米	厨房的面积是12ping2fang1mi3.	The kitchen is 12 square metres in area/has an area of 12 square metres.
临终	这个被俘的将军，挺着身子走向刑场，直到lin2zhong1还保持着自己的尊严。	The captured general maintained his dignity to the end, walking ramrod-straight to his execution.
收复	我军shou1fu4了该市，但为此付出了沉重代价。	Our troops recapture the city, but they pay a heavy price for it.
醒目	海报上的字体非常xing3mu4.	The lettering on the poster is very eye-catching.
登山	deng1shan1队员在半山腰扎营.	The climbers made camp half-way up the peak.
滚动	保龄球一种较重的轻度削平的大木球，以使球斜进gun3dong4	A large wooden ball weighted or slightly flattened so as to roll with a bias.
明朗	近代研究已使这个问题大为ming2lang3化了。	Modern investigations have thrown great light on this question.
燃放	庆祝会的高潮是ran2fang4烟火。	The climax of the celebration was a firework display.
后边	他决心去看看办公室hou4bian5的那些房间。	He determined to view the rooms behind the office.
心不在焉	过分关注某事的；xin1 bu4 zai4 yan1的	Excessively concerned with something; distracted.
够呛	两口子争得gou4qiang4，弄得咱们一晚上没眨眼皮。	The couple had a heck of an argument and kept us awake all night.
吸尘器	他在起居室里用xi1chen2qi4打扫地毯。	He is vacuuming a rug in the sitting room.
口子	他的脚在一块碎玻璃上划了一个大kou3zi5。	He gashed his foot on a piece of broken glass.
举杯	让我们ju3bei1向新娘和新郎祝贺!	Let's drink (a toast) to the bride and bridegroom!
撞见	她zhuang4jian4他正在搜查她的房间.	She came upon him unawares as he was searching her room.
小路	我们前面的那辆汽车突然转入左边的xiao3lu4上去了.	The car in front of us suddenly branched off to the left.
擅	无通行证者不得shan4入军事基地.	You cannot enter a military base without a permit.
修车	xiu1 che1厂雇用琼斯做修理工，但发现他是冒牌货后，就把他解雇了。	The garage hired Jones as a mechanic, but fired him when they found he was sailing under false colours.
采摘	cai3zhai1物；采集量已采集或可被采集的物体或一群物体	Something or a group of things that are or may be picked.
卖掉	他决定将全部东西—房子、家具、汽车统统mai4diao4。	He decided to sell the whole shooting match—his house, furniture and car.
字条	便条简短的便条或备忘zi4tiao2	A brief note or memorandum.
失血	这名伤员由于shi1xue4过多而昏迷不醒。	This wounded soldier was unconscious from his loss of blood.
痉挛	肠绞痛肠内jing4luan2性剧痛	Sharp, spasmodic pains in the bowels.
杂货店	他决定开一间小规模za2huo4dian4。	He has decided to open a grocer store in a small way.
摆设	她爱好搜集小bai3she5.	She collects bric-a-brac.
民事	针对人或财产的min2shi4不规行为称之为“侵权”。	Civil wrong against persons or property is called""torts"".
宿醉	元旦那天他们都感到su4zui4头痛。	On New Year's Day they were all hung over.
长岛	欧申赛德美国纽约东南部一个还未合并的位于Chang2dao3南岸的社区。欧寻赛德是一个以住宅及休养为主的城镇。人口32，423	An unincorporated community of southeast New York on the southern shore of Long Island. Oceanside is a residential and resort town. Population, 32,423.
诸如此类	他说他没有时间, 或是zhu1ru2ci3lei4的藉口.	He said he hadn't got time or made some such excuse.
过早	鸡蛋还未孵，先别数鸡雏；莫guo4zao3乐观。	Do not count your chickens before they are hatched.
盾牌	以前用以保护上前去围攻的士兵的活动的屏面或dun4pai2	A mobile screen or shield formerly used to protect besieging soldiers.
细微	照片放大後xi4wei1之处都很清楚.	The enlargement brings out the details in the photograph.
前夕	目前的危机与大战qian2xi1的形势类似.	The present crisis is analogous with the situation immediately before the war.
挥舞	刀剑hui1wu3，旌旗飘扬。	Swords brandished and banners waved.
退化	有些品种的狗尾巴只有tui4hua4的部分.	Some breeds of dog have only rudimentary tails.
基层	主席没有ji1ceng2的支持。	The chairman has no grass-root support.
失灵	汽车刹车shi1ling2撞在墙上了.	The brakes failed to grip (ie engage with and stop the wheels) and the car ran into a wall.
花纹	菱形hua1wen2的织物一种图案为小菱形叠复花型装饰的白棉布或亚麻布	A white cotton or linen fabric patterned with small, duplicative diamond-shaped figures.
葡萄干	我请求他从新疆回来时给我带些pu2tao2gan1。	I asked him to bring me some raisins when he returns from Xinjiang.
武力	大国力图用wu3li4来解决问题。	Powers tried to throw the sword into the scale.
二级	焦炭，煤气和汽油是更加有效地利用煤和石油的第er4ji2燃料的范例。	The gas and petrol are examples of secondary fuels by which coal and oil may be more effectively used.
圆形	正方形有四条边，而yuan2xing2没有边。	A square has four sides but a circle has no sides.
连载	惊险故事lian2zai3每一集都在悬念中结束的情节剧lian2zai3	A melodramatic serial in which each episode ends in suspense.
小人	那个卑鄙xiao3ren2在玩扑克牌时作弊，因此引起一场打斗。	A fight break out because that scumbag cheat at poker.
无害	问题不一定会发生, 但有备无患并wu2hai4处.	The problem may not arise, but there's no harm in keeping our powder dry.
日光	ri4guang1的照射使颜色变淡了。	The sunlight has bleached the colour out.
专卖	采牡蛎者捉、养殖或zhuan1mai4牡蛎的人	One who gathers, cultivates, or sells oysters.
随风	船帆sui2feng1摆动.	The sails were flapping gently in the wind.
拷贝	旧稿要加上先前kao3bei4的原新闻的稿件	Previous journalistic copy to which succeeding copy is added.
丧生	他的妻子在车祸中sang4sheng1。	His wife was killed in a car accident.
巨头	报纸上满是关于世界政治三ju4tou2会晤的报道。	The newspaper was covered with reports of the meeting of the three political titans in the world.
芳心	他以勇敢赢得fang1xin1无数。	He won many hearts by his gallantry.
烛光	zhu2guang1在日光下显得很黯淡。	The light of a candle is dimmed by sunlight.
过道	大门一种构造，可被摇晃、牵引或降低，从而堵塞一出口或一guo4dao4	A structure that can be swung, drawn, or lowered to block an entrance or a passageway.
大屠杀	血洗野蛮的、不加区别的杀戳；da4tu2sha1	Savage, indiscriminate killing; a massacre.
每月	她mei3 yue4都存一点儿钱.	She sets aside a bit of money every month.
柱	拐棍已折zhu4不得。	Never lean on a break staff.
浓缩	水冶金术通过液体过程，象过滤，提炼，沉淀等方法处理金属，从矿石中或矿石nong2suo1物中分离出金属	The treatment of metal or the separation of metal from ores and ore concentrates by liquid processes, such as leaching, extraction, and precipitation.
经济学	从jing1ji4xue2的观点来说，国家处于很兴旺的状态之中。	Economically, the country is in a very healthy state.
过得	我们的假日guo4de2好无聊，每天都下雨。	We had a mouldy holiday - it rained every day.
好汉	许多伟人曾经是贫苦、不足轻重的小孩。hao3han4不怕出生贱。	Many great men were once poor, unimportant boys. Great oaks form little acorn grow.
运河	他们须疏浚yun4he2河道轮船方可通航.	They have to dredge the canal so that ships can use it.
慌乱	汽车喇叭的叫声使男孩感到huang1luan4。	The honking of horns flustered the boy.
代理人	你若不希望我们的dai4li3ren2去造访，请告之。	Should you not wish our agent to call, please let us know.
吊死	罪犯被推上绞架diao4si3。	The criminals were hanged on the gibbet.
散开	士兵们在山腰上成扇形san4kai1，搜索那个男人。	The soldiers fanned out across the hillside in their search for the man.
校友	我们每年举行一次大学xiao4you3联欢会。	We hold an annual reunion of former students of the college.
光亮	guang1liang4的灿烂地闪耀的；非常明亮的	Shining brilliantly; very bright.
头版	tou2ban3上有些有意思的消息.	There's something interesting on the front page.
会计师	承包合同批给了总kuai4ji4shi1的朋友, （可谓）各有好处、 串通一气.	The contract went to a friend of the chief accountant: it's (a case of) you scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
死死	他只是带着那种奇特的神情si3si3地盯着她看。	He simply stared at her with that peculiar expression on his face.
试试看	你过来shi4shi5kan4。	Come on over to have a try.
行进	士兵在列队xing2jin4之後，很快便解散了。	The men fell out quickly after their march.
遗言	他囗头yi2yan2上遗留给我一点小小遗产作为他对我关爱的表徵。	He left me a small legacy in a nuncupative will, as a token of his kindness to me.
讲理	只要顺著她, 她是又和蔼又jiang3li3.	She's all sweetness and light provided you're doing what she wants.
痛哭	当她母亲回家来告诉她，她的狗已被车辗死时，这个可怜的小姑娘tong4ku1起来。	The poor little girl cried her heart out when her mother came home and told her that her dog had been run over.
香气	这房间里有一种xiang1qi4，使人想起春天的花朵。	There is an aroma suggestive of spring flowers in the room.
指手画脚	如果你朋友再来zhi3shou3-hua4jiao3，教育我们如何教育子女，那我就要叫他别多管闲事。	If your friend comes here with any more criticism about how we bring the children up, I'll tell him to go about his business.
半生	我们的前ban4sheng1为父母所糟蹋，而后ban4sheng1又复为儿女所糟蹋。	The first half of our lives is ruined by our parents and the second half by our children.
大名	好的。请您告诉我贵姓及da4ming2的头一个字母。	Ok may I have your last name and first initial, please?
插头	录音机的cha1tou2没插上.	The recorder wasn't plugged in.
讲解	请把这个问题给我jiang3jie3一下.	Please explain this problem to me.
房客	我把多余的房间出租（给fang2ke4）.	I let (out) my spare rooms (to lodgers).
时日	shi2ri4在无穷的展望中延展着。	The days stretch out in an endless vista.
群岛	日本在菲律宾qun2dao3的北面。	Japan lies to the north of Philippines.
有线	you3xian4圈的设备这样的螺旋线圈是主要部件的	Any of various devices of which such a spiral is the major component.
跨过	跨着以便kua4guo4或横过；横跨	So as to straddle or bridge; astride.
书桌	这种shu1zhuo1的高低可以按照你的需要调节。	This kind of desk can be adjusted to the height you need.
马来西亚	纳闽岛Ma3lai2xi1ya4婆罗洲东北海岸的一座岛屿。有一段时期曾为英国的直辖殖民地（1848年以后），1963年成为Ma3lai2xi1ya4的一部分	An island of Malaysia off the northeast coast of Borneo. At one time a British crown colony(after1848), it became part of Malaysia in1963.
不怎么	bu4 zen3me5想去，我并不大喜欢看电影。	Not really. I am not very fond of the cinema.
病痛	诊断通过评价病人的病史、体检情况和阅读试验数据的方式对人体机能进行检验或对人体引起bing4tong4的原因进行鉴别的行为或过程	The act or process of identifying or determining the nature and cause of a disease or injury through evaluation of patient history, examination, and review of laboratory data.
聚焦	我的目光没有ju4jiao1，以致我没有看到特别的目标，仅仅是那川流不息的彩色万花筒。	I throw my eyes out of focus, so that I see no particular object but only a seething kaleidoscope of colors.
圣灵	牟利罗，巴托洛米奥·埃斯特巴1617－1682西班牙风俗、肖像和宗教题材的画家，比如sheng4ling2怀胎1668	Spanish painter of genre scenes, portraits, and religious subjects, such as Immaculate Conception(1668).
穿透	水在chuan1tou4岩石的过程中获得了净化.	Water is purified by passing through rock.
毁坏	洪水hui3huai4了大量农作物。	The flood did a lot of damage to the crops.
垃圾箱	请你把废物扔到预备好的la1ji1xiang1里.	Please put your litter in the bin provided.
制品	硼砂常被用来做玻璃zhi4pin3。	Borax is always used in making glass.
霸占	他的财产被他叔叔ba4zhan4了。	His property was seized on by his uncle.
耐性	这项工作需要我拿出自己的全部精力和nai4xing4。	The job called for all my resources of energy and patience.
恶性	剧毒的，致命的极度传染性的、e4xing4的或剧毒的，用于疾病或毒素	Extremely infectious, malignant, or poisonous. Used of a disease or toxin.
肃静	他们都保持su4jing4。	They all maintained a reverent silence.
放任	经济自由主义一种经济理论，主张fang4ren4个人自由经营、建立自由市场体系和金本位制	An economic theory in favor of laissez-faire, the free market, and the gold standard.
棚	他给我们搭的花园peng2屋很没水平.	He made a very unprofessional job of putting up the garden shed for us.
荒废	这所房屋已处于huang1fei4的状态。	The house has fallen into a state of neglect.
水上	shui3shang4体育活动驾舟、游泳或其它与水有关的运动的技术	Skill in boating, swimming, or other water-related sports.
芽	大街两旁的梧桐树已冒ya2长叶。	The plane trees lining the main street are leafing out.
分居	赡养费按照法庭判决离婚后的原配偶－－通常为夫妻中收入较多的一方给另一方的供养补助。赡养费亦可付给并未离婚的双方中的一方，如在合法fen1ju1时	An allowance for support made under court order to a divorced person by the former spouse, usually the chief provider during the marriage. Alimony may also be granted without a divorce, as between legally separated persons.
哭声	这个政治家发现饥饿的孩子们可怜的ku1sheng1让人不忍心听下去。	The politician found the piteous cries of the starving children unbearable.
浇水	我们看见他在为屋子四周的草坪jiao1shui3。	We saw him watering the lawn around the house.
深感	我对盲人shen1gan3同情。	I felt much sympathy for the blind.
伟人	他喜欢读wei3ren2传记来提高自己。	He likes to read biographies of great men to promote himself.
壁画	西斯廷教堂的bi4hua4举世闻名.	The frescos in the Sistine Chapel are world-famous.
匈牙利	从群山之颠看到的Xiong1ya2li4景色非常壮丽。	The Hungarian view is magnificent from the summit of the mountains.
白银	黄金和bai2yin2的起伏不定的价格	The fluctuating value of gold and silver.
此后	ci3hou4不久，她便成为一名全国闻名的流行歌手。	Not long after that, she made a national name as a pop singer.
容许	事实不rong2xu3有其它的解释。	The facts permit no other explanation.
农家	把伤员安置在nong2jia1住宿.	The wounded were bedded in the farmhouse.
临死	灵魂出窍，亡魂显现活着的人在其lin2si3前出现的作为预兆的鬼魂	An apparition of a living person that appears as a portent just before that person's death.
发亮	猫的眼睛在黑暗中fa1liang4。	The cat's eyes glowed in the darkness.
乞讨	这个无家可归的男孩靠qi3tao3和偷窃为生。	The homeless boy begs and thieves for a living.
凉水	他用自来水龙头流出的liang2shui3把手洗干净。	He cleaned his hands in the cold water from the tap.
尚未	我们shang4wei4收到他的辞呈。	We haven't yet received his resignation.
名状	她感到一种难以ming2zhuang4的恐惧。	The apprehension she had felt had been shapeless.
柔弱	她装成rou2ruo4女性.	She affects the helpless female.
大风	da4feng1扫过平原。	The wind whipped across the plain.
折断	大厦上有个被风zhe2duan4的旗杆。	There is a flagpole broken by wind on the building.
垫子	他掀起dian4zi5把钥匙悄悄放在下面.	He lifted the mat and slid the key under (it).
关头	她在危急guan1tou2总是挺身而出.	She's always to the fore at moments of crisis.
碾	那只猫被卡车nian3死了。	The cat got run over by the lorry and squashed.
污点	他因卷入丑闻, 在名誉上留下wu1dian3.	His involvement in the scandal was a blot on his reputation.
严谨	天文学是一门yan2jin3的科学, 与占星术完全不同.	Astronomy, as distinct from astrology, is an exact science.
收取	他们对办理的每项业务shou1qu3一定的费用。	They charge a fixed rate for each transaction.
客车	ke4che1上坐满了老太太。	The coach is full of elderly ladies.
透彻	他举了具体的例子才把论点讲tou4che4。	He drove home his point by citing specific examples.
恩惠	我非常感激您的en1hui4。	I am greatly indebted to you for your kindness.
良药	目前仍没有治愈感冒的liang2yao4。	There is still no cure for the common cold.
饮水	农场有一个供牛yin3shui3的池塘。	The farm has a pond from which the cattle can drink.
军营	难民暂时安置在一座旧jun1ying2里.	The refugees are being lodged in an old army camp.
光明正大	他乘机利用她的无知和单纯，这种做法是不guang1ming2-zheng4da4的。	He takes advantage of her ignorance and simplicity; it isn't cricket.
饱受	他bao3shou4悔恨的煎熬.	He suffered agonies of remorse.
眉头	他心事重重，mei2tou2紧锁。	Care sat heavily on his brow.
急需	妹妹生病，ji2xu1用钱。	Sister ill money urgently needed
告密	gao4mi4者检举他人的人；gao4mi4的人	One who informs against others; an informer.
分公司	为发展业务, 我们决定开一家fen1gong1si1。	With a view to develop our business, we decided to establish a branch office.
方块	擦抹于球杆顶端的粉块用来擦弹子球棒梢或落袋台球棒梢以增加其与球的摩擦的一小fang1kuai4白垩	A small cube of chalk used in rubbing the tip of a billiard or pool cue to increase its friction with the cue ball.
加勒比	尽人皆知，苏联对古巴这时的发展感到不快，""这位［欧洲］外交官说。可是他又说，苏联允许国内及东欧有较多的自由，""若强行逼迫Jia1le4bi3海的盟邦，那可真是矛盾。""	It's no secret that the Soviets are not happy about the developments here in Cuba, "" the [European] diplomat said. But he added that with the Soviets permitting more freedom at home and within Eastern Europe, ""it would be a real contradiction to twist the arm of its Caribbean ally.""
遗漏	她抱怨名单上yi2lou4了她的名字。	She complained about the omission of her name from the list.
遮掩	他哈哈大笑以zhe1yan3紧张的心情.	He laughed to cover (ie hide) his nervousness.
佩戴	她pei4dai4了一把小梳子作为装饰品。	She wore a small comb as an ornament.
花都	桃hua1du1已经开过了。	The peach blossoms are over.
炮弹	夹叉射击按这种方式射出的pao4dan4	The shells fired in such a manner.
欢度	我们一起huan1du4的那个晚上是我最快乐的事情之一。	That evening together is one of my happiest recollections.
董事	他从初级职员做起，最终成了这家公司的dong3shi4。	He joined the firm as a junior clerk, and finished up a director.
活人	我宁愿照顾huo2ren2的肚子，也不愿以石碑的形式来照顾死者的荣耀。	I'd rather take care of the stomachs of the living than (take care of) the glory of the dead in the form of stone memorials.
舞者	空中交叉跳跃一种芭蕾舞动作，wu3zhe3在空中多次前后交叉双腿	A jump in ballet during which the dancer crosses the legs a number of times, alternately back and forth.
阵雨	整个下午断断续续地下着zhen4yu3。	It showered off and on all afternoon.
归属	两国之间存在着涉及那个岛屿gui1shu3的领土争端。	The two countries had a territorial dispute over which one owned the island.
初期	他新买的房子是美国chu1qi1的建筑。	The new house he bought was colonial architecture.
韦伯	wei2bo2磁通量的国际单位，等于当磁通量在一秒钟内被统一地减弱为零时在它联接的一圈电路内产生一伏特电动势时的磁通量	The SI unit of magnetic flux equal to the magnetic flux that in linking a circuit of one turn produces in it an electromotive force of one volt as it is uniformly reduced to zero within one second.
绊倒	他被一株树根ban4dao3了。	He tripped on a tree root.
伎俩	这种可耻的ji4liang3都是为了能让他当选.	These shameful manoeuvreswere aimed at securing his election.
拆除	警方封锁了这个区域直至chai1chu2炸弹的引信为止。	Police cordoned off the area until the bomb was defused.
星辰	倘若没有指南针, 可利用xing1chen2引路.	If you haven't a compass, use the stars to guide you.
奥地利	不要把Ao4di4li4跟澳大利亚弄混淆了.	Don't confuse Austria and/with Australia.
上层	乘客只可以在公共汽车的shang4ceng2吸烟。	Passengers may smoke only on the upper deck of the bus.
红火	格雷在一小块地下开始种花，如今他的生意确实十分hong2huo5，英格兰各地都有他的花店。	Gray started growing flowers on a small piece of land. Now he has really made it big and owns flower shops all over England.
满心	他man3xin1欢喜。	Joy filled his breast.
奏	风琴zou4出庄严的乐曲。	The organ rolled out a stately melody.
数百万	在很多地方，计算机能做shu4bai3wan4人的工作，因此它被广泛地应用在各个科技领域——核物理、电气工程、机械工程等等。	In many places a computer does the work of a million persons, and so it is widely used in any branch of science and technology- nuclear physics, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, and the like.
内存	这台计算机的nei4cun2是256K。	This computer has a 256K memory.
引进	政府对yin3jin4科学设备非常感兴趣。	The government has an interest in importing scientific equipment.
从来不	他的军队cong2lai2 bu4向侵略者屈服。	His army never came under the yoke of invaders.
拴	那群牲畜被绳子shuan1着。	The animals were fastened by tether.
蒸汽	云是由水zheng1qi4凝缩而成的。	A cloud is a condensation of water vapour.
炸鸡	海伦在快餐店里点了zha2ji1和色拉。	Helen ordered both fried chicken and salad in the fast-food restaurant.
摆弄	他若继续bai3nong4那钟表，那非把它弄坏不可。	If he keeps fiddling with the clock, he is sure to put it out of order.
七十	他爷爷快qi1shi2岁了。	His grandfather is nearly seventy.
逐	我正在zhu2字的翻译。	I am making a verbal translation.
孩童	她在科学方面的倾向性在hai2tong2时代就已显现出来。	Her scientific bias showed itself in early childhood.
柬埔寨	印度支那半岛东南亚的一个半岛，包括越南、老挝、Jian3pu3zhai4、泰国、缅甸和马来西亚的大陆部分。历史上这一片地区曾受印度（尤其是印度教文化）和中国的影响	A peninsula of southeast Asia comprising Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Burma, and the mainland territory of Malaysia. The area was influenced in early times by India(particularly the Hindu culture) and China.
审核	草案准备好了。请shen3he2一下细节内容，看看是否全部条款都合适好吗？	The draft is prepared. Will you please check the particulars and see if everything is all right?
意念	当时有关新市政大厅的计画还仅仅是那建筑师酝酿中的yi4nian4。	The plans for the new town hall were then still only a gleam in the architect's eye.
军用	新政府将他的地产徵作jun1yong4.	The new government expropriated his estate for military purposes.
厚重	犁一种农具，由在一根横梁端部的hou4zhong4的刃构成，通常系在一组牵引它的牲畜或机动车上，用来破碎土块并耕出槽沟从而为播种做好准备	A farm implement consisting of a heavy blade at the end of a beam, usually hitched to a draft team or motor vehicle and used for breaking up soil and cutting furrows in preparation for sowing.
供应商	设备必须从公司认可的gong1ying4shang1那里购买。	The equipment must be bought from a supplier approved by the company.
亲笔	签名册qin1bi3签名组成的册子	Autographs considered as a group.
毒性	耳du2xing4的对耳结构有毒害影响的，尤指对耳神经感觉	Having a toxic effect on the structures of the ear, especially on its nerve supply.
心肠	他老是把钱借给她，xin1chang2也太软了。	He's always lending her money; he's too soft-hearted.
水泡	他的鞋子太重，脚上磨出了shui3pao4。	His heavy shoes raised blisters on his feet.
养老	该yang3lao3基金在几家主要出售股份给公众的公司中均有股份.	The pension fund owns shares in several major public companies.
爱国者	ai4guo2zhe3热爱、支持和保卫自己国家的人	One who loves, supports, and defends one's country.
拉长	我插进了几则笑话，把我的讲话la1chang2了。	I made my speech longer by padding it with a few jokes.
截然不同	镇上有些所谓的娱乐, 但与城里的jie2ran2 bu4 tong2.	The town offers entertainments of a kind, but nothing like what you'll find in the city.
黄蜂	大多数蜜蜂和huang2feng1都是群居昆虫。	Most bees and wasps are social insects.
装饰品	墙上有一个贝壳做成的zhuang1shi4pin3。	There is an ornament made of shells on the wall.
篝火	那gou1huo3只有余烬尚存。	Only the embers of the bonfire remained.
加仑	这是jia1lun2与升的换算公式。	It's the formula for converting gallons into liters.
工作者	我们的文艺gong1zuo4zhe3一定要完成这个任务，转变他们的立场。	Our literary and art workers must accomplish this task and shift their stand.
右侧	船突然向you4ce4倾斜.	The ship gave a lurch to starboard.
不公	六个月监禁的判决极其bu4gong1。	The sentence of six months imprisonment was most unjust.
下山	太阳xia4shan1后天气很快就会冷下来。	It gets cold quickly when the sun goes down.
马力	你的车子使用高级汽油可以增大ma3li4。	High-test gasoline will soup up your car.
脱落	这个树枝已从树干上tuo1luo4了.	The branch has separated from the trunk of the tree.
陈年	在他的酒类收藏中有一些名贵的chen2nian2葡萄酒。	He have some rare old vintage in his collection of wine.
牛津	我们中午能到Niu2jin1吗?	D'you think we'll make Oxford by midday?
讯号	课程包括：电力系统，90分；xun4hao4处理，88分；系统控制，92分；电力能源系统，92分；固体电子学，88分；通讯，94分。	Curriculum included: Electric power systems,90; Signal processing,88; Systems and control,92; Electric energy systems,92; Solid-state electronics,88; Communications,94.
衰竭	终止于shuai1jie2是“死亡”，但“圆满”却终止于无穷。	That which ends in exhaustion is death, but the perfect ending is in the endless.
变革	人民群众普遍反对突然实行的bian4ge2。	The populace at large are opposed to sudden change.
加深	这种感觉一年一年地jia1shen1了。	The feeling deepened with the passing of the years.
枪毙	警察qiang1bi4了6个抢劫银行的匪徒。	The police shoot six gangsters in the bank raid.
重伤	这名士兵胸部受了zhong4shang1。	The soldier received a serious wound on the chest.
效忠	1986年布什所预料到的尴尬情形果然发生了。他的政治生涯的确受到威胁。他[对里根]的xiao4zhong1到了瘫痪自己的程度。这固然是个人美德，但在政治上却是障碍。	The dilemma that Bush foresaw in1986 has come to pass. His political career is indeed at stake, and his paralyzing loyalty is becoming a political handicap as well as a personal virtue.
相交	垂直线与水平线在此xiang1jiao1.	The vertical line meets the horizontal one here.
顺从	永恒不变的个人恒心和经常shun4cong2的挂念	Constant personal attention and often obsequious solicitude.
新房	他在找xin1fang2子时把家具存放在仓库里。	His furniture is in storage while he finds a new house.
接替	jie1ti4他担任主席的人将参加本次会议。	His successor as the chairman will be at the conference.
身躯	她纤弱的shen1qu1因阵阵咳嗽而发颤。	Her slight frame was shaken by bouts of coughing.
长处	忍耐是他的chang2chu4。	Patience is his strong suit.
荒芜	我们已经灌溉了huang1wu2地区使它肥沃。	We have irrigated the desert area to make it fertile.
盟友	我们的处境已不容我们对meng2you3再存多少幻想了.	We're left with few illusions about ourally.
遇难	在伦敦遭空袭时, 有很多老百姓yu4nan4.	Many civilians were killed in the air raids on London.
列出	她lie4chu1了我们要购买的东西--糖、 茶叶、 肥皂等.	She enumerated the items we had to buy sugar, tea, soap, etc.
毛茸茸	我喜欢这块布给我的感觉，它摸上去mao2rong1rong1的很暖和。	I like the feel of this cloth; it has a warm woolly feel.
咽喉	我准备做一次yan1hou2细菌培养，以便确诊。	I am going to take a throat culture so we'll know for sure.
捂住	他伸手wu3 zhu4她的嘴, 不让她叫喊.	He put his hand over her mouth to stop her screaming.
零售	我以ling2shou4方式买来这些牛奶。	I bought the milk retail.
刺骨	天气太冷了，他感到寒冷ci4gu3。	It was so cold that he felt frozen to the marrow.
瓷器	包装ci2qi4时在周围多放些包装材料。	Put plenty of wrapping round the china when you pack it.
对视	她垂下双目以避免dui4 shi4。	She cast her eyes down to avoid direct eye contact.
左侧	哈姆雷特从舞台zuo3ce4退下。	Hamlet goes off stage left.
子孙	我们必须为zi3sun1后代保护森林资源。	We must conserve our forests and woodlands for future generations.
粒子	衰变的具有相对较短的寿命而衰变，常用于亚原子li4zi3	Decaying with relatively short lifetime. Used of subatomic particles.
谈到	一tan2dao4暑假，我们大家都变兴奋了。	When it came to the summer vacation, we all became excited.
驱动	这些发动机是由蒸汽qu1dong4的。	The engines are driven by steam.
竟敢	你jing4gan3冲我吐舌头!	Don't you dare stick your tongue out at me!
偷偷摸摸	这孩子tou1tou1-mo1mo1地溜出了屋子, 走向游泳池。	The boy slipped out of the room and headed for the swimming pool secretly.
同谋	警察逮捕了他和他的两个tong2mou2。	The police arrested him and his two accomplices.
芬芳	花园里的空气又温暖又fen1fang1。	The air in the garden was warm and fragrant.
胶卷	你用的jiao1juan3感光度是多少?	What's the speed of the film you're using?
果酱	到柜子那儿把guo3jiang4取下来。	Go to the cupboard and get down the jam.
养育	在我还未结婚之前，我有过六项yang3yu4孩子的理论；现在我有六个孩子了，再没有什么理论啦。	Before I get married I have six theories about bringing up children; now I have six children, and no theories.
提包	他抢走我手中的ti2bao1就跑了.	He just grabbed the bag from my hand and ran off.
花草	夏天时，山坡上长满了hua1cao3。	The hillside is covered by grass and flowers in summer.
亭	碰巧在附近有个公用电话ting2。	It happened that there was a telephone booth nearby.
卧铺	火车中的侍者，服务员火车上的wo4pu4车厢或特等豪华客车中服务于旅客的雇员	A railroad employee who waits on passengers in a sleeping car or parlor car.
使唤	国王有奴仆们随时听他shi3huan5.	The king has always had servants at his beck and call.
制造商	这台机器的zhi4zao4shang1在哪？	Where is the manufacturer of the machine?
萦绕	他心头一直ying2rao4著可能失业的恐惧感.	The spectre of unemployment was always on his mind.
展出	他的绘画正在展览会上zhan3chu1。	His paintings are on display at the exhibition.
序列	对计算机程序中的指令xu4lie4的检测和记录，例如在监控程序和调试程序中使用的情况。	The detection and recording of the sequencing of instructions in computer programs, for example, as used in monitors and debugging routines.
马赛	我很走运，在最后几场Ma3sai4中，接二连三地赌赢了。	Fortunately, I picked winners back to back in the last few races.
日照	在有充足的水分的地方，有好的ri4zhao4时，大多数植物生长良好。	Most plants grow well where there is sufficient moisture and when there is good sunshine.
路灯	lu4deng1在黄昏时开, 拂晓时关.	The street lights come on at dusk and go off at dawn.
脉冲	这台机器由电子mai4chong1信号操纵.	The machine is operated by an electronic pulse.
鞭子	那个罪犯找到後就要挨bian1zi5抽打.	The culprit will be whipped when he is found.
辨别	你能bian4bie2这两个品种吗?	Can you differentiate between the two varieties?
校内	在午饭时间, 值班教师负责维持xiao4nei4秩序.	The teachers on duty are policing the school buildings during the lunch hour.
便车	我可以搭乘你的bian4che1到车站吗？	Can I hitch a lift with you as far as the station?
一般来说	到了7月底左右，犁地yi1ban1 lai2 shuo1已结束，要对庄稼进行最后一道中耕了。	The ploughing generally ceases and the crp is laid by about the last of July.
乘务员	他的邻居是一个cheng2wu4yuan2领班。	His neighbor is a chief steward.
学好	要xue2hao3英语就要处处学习用英语思考。	To learn English well one has to learn to think in English at every turn.
编码	产生某种指定类型和格式的结果的程序或另一种bian1ma3序列（如“宏生成程序”、“微代码生成程序”）。	A program or other coding sequence that produces a result of specified type and format(""a macro generator"";""a microcode generator"").
衰弱	他喝酒过多, 身体逐渐shuai1ruo4了.	He started to drink too much and gradually ran to seed.
羊羔	肥畜养肥备宰的幼畜（如yang2gao1、牛犊）	A young animal, such as a lamb or calf, fattened for slaughter.
捉住	他追赶窃贼却未zhuo1zhu4.	He chased (after) the burglar but couldn't catch him.
烫伤	锅炉爆炸时她被tang4shang1了。	She was scalded when the boiler exploded.
后头	我们出门散步时，孩子们总是落在hou4tou5。	The children always lag behind when we go for a walk.
槽	他在食cao2里放了些草。	He put some grass in the manger.
高等	粉红色色彩中略带红色的颜色中的一组，亮度中到gao1deng3，彩度饱和度从低到中等	Any of a group of colors reddish in hue, of medium to high lightness, and of low to moderate saturation.
信守	不用说，他xin4shou3了他的诺言。	Needless to say, he kept his promise.
多重	这个箱子有duo1chong2？	How heavy is this box?
伯伯	他bo2bo5特别喜爱他.	He is a favourite with his uncle/a favourite of his uncle's/his uncle's favourite.
挫败	政府受到反对派阻挠而cuo4bai4.	The government were defeated by the obstructionism of their opponents.
席卷	熊熊烈火xi2juan3森林。	Billows of flame swept through the forest.
天主教徒	Tian1zhu3jiao4tu2透过告解以获得赦罪[净化灵魂].	Catholics go to confession to be purged of sin/purge (away) their sin/purge their souls of sin.
接头	这两个jie1tou2衔接得很好。	The two joints hang together pretty well.
微型	由Apple计算机公司制造的各种普及型wei1xing2计算机。	A range of popular microcomputers manufactured by Apple Computers.
显示器	在阴极射线管xian3shi4qi4中，用电子束激励后荧光物质光发射的持续现象。	In cathode ray tube display, the continuation of light emission from phosphor after excitation by the electron beam.
声响	爆炸发出巨大的sheng1xiang3。	The explosion gave forth a tremendous sound.
荆棘	防御器官动物或植物的防护层，结构或器官，如牙齿，爪子，jing1ji2或乌龟的壳	A protective covering, structure, or organ of an animal or a plant, such as teeth, claws, thorns, or the shell of a turtle.
冥想	他沉溺于沉思ming2xiang3。	He was buried in meditation.
蓄意	这个男人被抓进了警察局，指控在一个地方徘徊，xu4yi4作案。	The man was taken to the police station on a charge of loitering with intent.
难听	节目中的暴力场面和nan2ting1的粗话使许多观众感到震惊。	The violence and bad language in the program shocked many of the viewers.
微量	经分析发现蛋糕里含有wei1liang4的毒素。	The cake on analysis was found to contain traces of toxin.
稿子	我心里还没个准gao3zi5。	I haven't got any definite plan yet.
种族主义	他们保证该党一定把zhong3zu2 zhu3yi4分子清除掉[把zhong3zu2 zhu3yi4分子从党内清洗出去].	They promised that the party would be purged of racists/that racists would be purged from the party.
琥珀	hu3po4色的缎子和白色的饰带正是她所想要的。	Amber satin and white lace are exactly what she desires.
拼写	他不善于pin1xie3。	He is poor at spelling.
列入	我们先把这件事仔细研究一下，再把它lie4ru4议事日程。	Let's thrash the matter over before putting it on the agenda.
墓碑	mu4bei1上的文字已严重磨损难以辨认.	The lettering on the gravestone was badly worn and almost illegible.
产物	他们是战後富裕生活的chan3wu4.	They are the products of post-war affluence.
税收	许多新shui4shou1都是有争议的。	Many of the new taxes are controversial.
求生	我们qiu2sheng1的唯一希望就在於裁军吗?	Does our only hope of survival lie in disarmament?
色拉	这份se4la1是由苹果、梨、土豆和芹菜做成的。	This salad is made of apple, pear, potato and celery.
启航	那船在暴风雨减弱後qi3hang2了.	The ship sailed when the storm had abated.
低音	低频扬声器设计用来再现di1yin1频率的扬声器	A loudspeaker designed to reproduce bass frequencies.
党员	据说他已经成为一名dang3yuan2了。	It is said that he has became a Party member.
流鼻涕	你liu2 bi2ti5了!	You've got a runny nose!
残废	他终身can2fei4.	He has been an invalid all his life.
总归	儿子zong3gui1要离开家的, 这种事很难免.	It is only to be expected your son will leave home eventually.
游乐场	新的住宅区一直延伸到you2le4chang3的那一边.	The new housing estate stretches beyond the playing-fields.
事宜	我是由本地的旅游代理人预先安排的度假shi4yi2。	I booked my holiday through my local travel agent.
有望	因经济衰退状况终止you3wang4，股票价格得以保持高位。	Share prices were buoyed up by hopes of an end to the recession.
夺取	他们那一球进得漂亮, 鼓舞了全队的士气duo2qu3胜利.	The magnificent goal spurred the team on to victory.
振	这好消息使我精神大zhen4。	The good news lifted my spirits.
过日子	在悬而未决的状态之下guo4ri4zi5是凄惨的，是蜘蛛的生活嘛。	It is a miserable thing to live in suspense; it is a life of a spider.
七月	这个饭店要到qi1yue4中旬才营业。	The hotel is closed until mid- July.
想开	那老太太xiang3kai1录像机, 但是越搞越糊涂.	The old lady gets in(to) a muddle trying to work the video.
病床	在医院bing4chuang2躺了一个星期之后，他只能遥遥晃晃地走几步。	After a week in the hospital bed, I was only able too wobble around a bit.
照明	这些街道的zhao4ming2很差.	These streets are very poorly lit.
起航	船qi3hang2前往日本。	The ship launched in the direction of Japan.
言辞	咬文嚼字者爱用yan2ci2多于思想或实质的人	One who favors words over ideas or substance.
深厚	最后，我想借此机会请汤姆逊教授转达我们shen1hou4的友谊，并表示对他的同胞良好的祝愿。	Finally, we want to take this opportunity to beg him to convey our profound friendship and best regards to his people.
乘车	乘客们拥挤在火车站上等候cheng2che1。	Passengers thronged the station waiting for their trains.
显眼	房间布置得很好：蓝色的墙使黄色家具更xian3yan3。	The room is well decorated: the blue wall sets off the yellow furniture.
弹奏	风笛的调旋律管其上能tan2zou4曲调的风笛管	The pipe of a bagpipe on which the melody is played.
骡子	这匹luo2zi5忽然用后腿猛踢	The mule lashed out with its hind legs.
披肩	她戴着带有貂皮的pi1jian1	She wore her sable stole.
药剂	蒸发器蒸发的器具，尤其是用于蒸发吸入yao4ji4的装置	One that vaporizes, especially a device used to vaporize medicine for inhalation.
奉上	同函feng4shang455美元书款支票一张，外加每册14分邮费在内。请查收。	I am enclosing a cheque for$55.00 which covers the cost of the book plus the postage charge of14 cents a volume.
高低	她的头发剪得很糟，发梢gao1di1不齐。	Her hair has been badly cut and the ends are uneven.
过冬	他买了一床厚被子guo4dong1。	He bought a heavy quilt for the winter.
无望	政府不应浪费资金去扶持那些wu2wang4的企业.	The government should not waste money supporting lame ducks.
面罩	那些劫匪都戴著mian4zhao4蒙著脸.	The robbers all wore hoods to hide their faces.
栏杆	公园的lan2gan1上有很多尖头。	There are many sharp spikes on the railings in the park.
寄生虫	潜隐体一种处于发育阶段的疟疾ji4sheng1chong2，在侵入红血细胞之前，寄生在体内组织中	A malarial parasite at the stage of development in which it inhabits bodily tissue before invading the red blood cells.
放映	有天晚上学校fang4ying4了一部西部片。	One evening the school showed a cowboy film.
好战	我们应该始终牢记日本是一个hao4zhan4的国家。	We should always remember that Japan is a martial nation.
追溯	作者设法zhui1su4了许多事件，在这些事件中，由于离奇的机遇，使女主角与这一家庭有了短时间的接触。	The author has managed to trace many incidents in which the long arm of confidence brought the heroine in fleeting touch with the members of the family.
圆滑	不善交际的缺乏社会风度的；不yuan2hua2的	Lacking social polish; tactless.
三八	这家工厂的所有女职工在san1ba1节都得到了一份礼物。	All the female workers in this factory got a present on March 8.
短路	线路上有duan3lu4需要换线.	The wiring is faulty and needs to be replaced.
园丁	yuan2ding1向我要一台旋转式割草机。	The gardener asked me for a rotatory lawn mower.
弱小	日本公司有能力在发展与生产方面，较美国公司投资为多，是他们在半导体方面占上风的一个主要原因。现在，英泰尔计划在经济不景气时大量投资以压倒ruo4xiao3竞争者。	The ability to outspend American companies on development and production has been a big reason Japanese companies have made gains in the semi-conductor business. Now Intel plans to borrow a page from the Japanese by spending heavily through a recession to gain ground on weaker competitors.
每日	文件mei3ri4存取, 使之不断更新.	The files were accessed every day to keep them up to date.
长出	大树小树都已zhang3chu1嫩芽.	The trees and hedgerows are in bud.
引人注目	那消息给加了花边，使之更加yin3ren2zhu4mu4。	The news was boxed in to draw more attention.
假定	尚未证实他有罪, 就得jia3ding4他是清白的.	We must assume him to be innocent until he is proved guilty.
铲	她用金属chan3抹平了蛋糕配料.	She levelled the surface of the cake mixture with a metal spatula.
大作	克莱尔, 那板上的画儿是你的da4zuo4吗?	Is that drawing on the board your handiwork, Clare?
招待会	你不能穿那种衣服出席zhao1dai4hui4--不太庄重.	You can't wear that to the reception it's not dressy enough.
下台	他被听众嘘xia4tai2来。	He was hissed off by the audience.
哀	猫在门口ai1叫着想出去。	The cat whined at the door, asking to be let out.
前年	qian2nian2圣诞节过後我一直没见过他.	I haven't seen him since the Christmas before last.
上行	这个计划道理shang4xing2得通, 但不现实。	The plan is feasible in reason but impractical.
赶往	她匆匆gan3wang3机场。	She hurried to the airport.
特性	计算机病毒的一种主要te4xing4。	A main feature of computer virus.
大山	那座da4shan1的轮廓看上去像一条龙。	The contour of that mountain looks like a dragon.
走火	威利玩他父亲的手枪时不小心zou3huo3了, 把墙壁打出一个洞。	Willie accidentally lets off his father's shotgun and made a hole in the wall.
自来水	这个村子里家家户户都没有zi4lai2shui3.	The houses in this village are without water.
外伤	wai4shang1身体的严重损伤或刺激，常由暴力或事故造成	A serious injury or shock to the body, as from violence or an accident.
匕首	他死于刺客的bi3shou3之下。	He fell a victim to the dagger of the assassin.
瓷砖	要买ci2zhuan1的订货已登记下来了。	The order for ceramic tiles has been booked in.
倒退	我知道火车已经停了，但我觉得火车在dao4tui4。	I knew the train had stopped, but I had the sensation that it was moving backwards.
胡桃	这个箱子是hu2tao2木做的。	This box is made of walnut.
鲑鱼	他计划星期天去钓gui1yu2。	He planed to go fishing for salmon on Sunday.
打气	人们叫喊著为选手da3qi4.	The crowd yelled (out) encouragement at the players.
藏匿	这个老战犯终于被人从他在国外的cang2ni4处查获。	The old war criminal is at last smoked out from his hiding place abroad.
裂开	口袋lie4kai1了, 大米撒出来了.	The sack split and the rice poured out.
面容	她忧戚的mian4rong2反映出她内心的思想。	Her sad looks reflected the thought passing through her mind.
汪汪	她的小嘴巴一噘，眼泪wang1wang1。	Her little mouth pucker up and tear fille her eyes.
手提箱	shou3ti2xiang1裂开了，里面的东西纷纷落在地板上。	The suitcase burst open and its contents rained on the floor.
沦陷	部队从lun2xian4的城市安全撤出。	The troop made good their retreat from the occupied city.
不复	罢工者受到威胁说，如果他们bu4fu4工，就会被解雇。	The strikers were threatened with dismissal if they did not return to work.
土豆泥	她喜欢香肠和tu3dou4ni2。	She loves sausage and mash.
碱	酸与jian3反应生成盐。	Acids react with bases to form salts.
沦为	这次选举後该党已lun2wei2微不足道的少数党.	The election reduced the Party to a rump.
遛	教授心不在焉地沿途瞎liu4.	The professor bumbled absent-mindedly along the road.
参议院	can1yi4yuan4编写税法的人对众议院的提案，迟疑不愿同意，因为他们顾虑这仅是帐篷底下一只骆驼的鼻子。	Senate tax writers were hesitant to agree to the House proposal because of concerns that it represented the camel's nose under the tent.
白兰地	我昨晚喝了一小瓶bai2lan2di4。	I drank a miniature bottle of brandy last night.
水库	由于大旱四个月，shui3ku4干枯了。	The reservoir dried up during the four-month drought.
小孩儿	这xiao3hai2r5吐了我一身.	The baby puked (up) all over me.
留学生	她是个在英国的外国liu2xue2sheng1。	She is an overseas student in Britain.
打转	薄雾在那座古老的城堡的周围da3zhuan4转。	The mist eddied round the old castle.
理科	他是li3ke1主考人之一。	He is one of the science examiners.
走去	我们正向家的方向zou3qu4。	We are heading home.
锅盖	她掀起guo1gai4加点盐。	She lifted the lid of the pot to add some salt.
莫大	这些优异的成绩给我们全体工作人员带来了mo4da4的光荣.	These excellent results reflect great credit on all our staff.
饮品	这种橙汁yin3pin3不含人工调味料.	This orange drink contains no artificial flavourings.
深切	对於令夫人之去世, 谨向您表示最shen1qie4的慰问.	You have my deepest sympathies on the death of your wife.
远大	目光yuan3da4的人便也心胸开阔。	Those who take long views are broad-minded.
扫帚	他停止扫地，倚着sao4zhou5休息。	He stopped sweeping and rested on the broom.
日渐	对通货膨胀似乎有一种ri4jian4增长的不满情绪。	There appears to be a growing discontent about inflation.
下星期	买房者xia4xing1qi1付定金。	The purchaser of the house will pay the deposit next week.
病假	如果请费尔南德斯走路，教育局可以付钱马上终止合约，或是让他做满任期。费尔南德斯按规定可以在十九万五的年薪之外，还可以领未用bing4jia4和其他福利折合现金四十万元。	If Fernandez is shown the door, the board could either buy out his contract immediately or allow him to serve out his term. Fernandez is set to collect$400, 000 in past sick pay and other benefits on top of his$195, 000 salary.
瘦肉	shou4rou4上可加咸肉片烤制以保持水分。	Lean meat can be larded to keep it moist in the oven.
难看	你脸色很nan2kan4, 是不舒服了吗?	You look ghastly; are you all right?
核对	请仔细he2dui4单子以避免发生错误。	Please check the list carefully so as to avoid mistakes.
当家	在比尔家里，真正dang1jia1的是她的老婆。	It's Bill's wife who really rules the roost in that family.
上述	shang4shu4价格不包括佣金在内。	The above price excludes your commission.
附加	fu4jia1材料是用红色加印上的.	Additional material is overprinted in red.
饭馆	这家fan4guan3的价钱对我来说贵了些.	This restaurant is a bit pricey for me.
出丑	有时候他的演说很成功，有时候却大出洋相，当众chu1chou3。	Sometimes he is a successful speaker, but sometimes he lays an egg.
志愿	在我们大多数办公室任职的是zhi4yuan4人员。	Most of our offices are staffed by volunteers.
排出	血液还能从身体组织里pai2chu1废物。	The blood can also export waste products from the tissues.
蹭	我感到了猫在我的腿上ceng4来ceng4去。	I could feel the cat rubbing up against my leg.
出境	他已潜逃chu1jing4.	He absconded from the country.
无名	一位活跃在10世纪的wu2ming2诗人；在印象主义最蓬勃的时期作画	An anonymous poet who flourished in the tenth century; painted when Impressionism was flourishing.
阴性	德语中有三性: 阳性、 yin1xing4和中性.	There are three genders in German: masculine, feminine and neuter.
凶狠	凶恶的女人被认为胆大或xiong1hen3的妇女	A woman regarded as daring or fierce.
乌云	wu1yun2是下雨的明显前兆。	Black clouds are an unmistakable sign of coming rain.
作对	我认为他侵占我的停车位肯定是有意和我zuo4dui4。	I'm sure he took my parking space just to spite me.
河水	he2shui3冲破了堤岸。	The river broke its banks.
真空	zhen1kong1般状态压强明显比大气压强低得多的空间	A space in which the pressure is significantly lower than atmospheric pressure.
洋娃娃	她非常想要这个yang2wa2wa5。	She wants the doll badly.
视察	他对这个地区进行了多次shi4cha2。	He made a number of inspections.
立法	交付将li4fa3议案交归委员会的行动	The act of referring a legislative bill to committee.
高压	gao1ya1下干冰会溶化。	At high pressure dry ice will melt.
开销	拥有房地产要有很大的kai1xiao5。	Ownership of property involves great expense.
色泽	黑曜岩火山玻璃，一般为黑色，带状，摔碎时se4ze2光亮，表面变曲，由火山熔岩迅速凝而成	A usually black or banded, hard volcanic glass that displays shiny, curved surfaces when fractured and is formed by rapid cooling of lava.
较为	而且中型车的腿部伸展空间jiao4wei2宽敞。	And the mid- size car have a lot more legroom.
屋檐	檐槽把雨水从房顶排走的水槽，装在wu1yan2边或檐下	A trough fixed under or along the eaves for draining rainwater from a roof.
一身	公共汽车开过时溅了我yi1shen1泥。	As the bus passed, it spattered mud on my clothes.
组装	商店为了迎合“自己动手”的狂热心理，为消费者提供可以在家里zu3zhuang1的零件。	Shops cater for the do-it- yourself craze by offering consumers bits and pieces which they can assemble at home.
手电筒	他打开了shou3dian4tong3，寻找钥匙。	He turned on the torch to look for his keys.
超重	略微chao1zhong4了点。	It's a little overweight.
旁观	在他们讨论我的前途时，我恨不得能偷偷pang2guan1。	I wish I could be a fly on the wall when they discuss my future.
升值	在今日的交易中, 日元已sheng1zhi2到历史的最高水平.	The yen hit a record high in trading today.
暴风雪	想在这样大的bao4feng1xue3中去爬山简直是疯狂。	It would be madness to try to climb the mountain in such a snowstorm.
倒塌	别靠近! 那建筑物随时可能dao3ta1.	Keep back! The building could collapse at any moment.
供养	他需要有高收入才能gong1yang3得起这样一个大家庭。	He needs a high income to support such a large family.
所在地	娱乐场，游乐场在商品交易会、狂欢节、马戏团或展览会suo3zai4di4提供杂耍表演和其它娱乐活动的地方	The area of a fair, a carnival, a circus, or an exposition where sideshows and other amusements are located.
咯咯	教师的嗓音很高, 孩子们都不禁ge1ge1地笑起来.	The children couldn't stop giggling at the teacher's high-pitched voice.
瞳孔	进入黑暗的房间时, tong2kong3就扩大.	The pupils of your eyes dilate when you enter a dark room.
仙人	xian1ren2生活在太虚之中。	Celestials live in the great void.
突如其来	灌木丛中tu1 ru2 qi2 lai2的响声把她的马吓惊了.	The sudden noise in the bushes startled her horse.
创造性	他同时具有chuang4zao4xing4想象力和真正的治学谨严学风。	He combines creative imagination and true scholarship.
单一	特写一种简要但有戏剧性的重要演员的出场，如动作画面的dan1yi1场景	A brief but dramatic appearance of a prominent actor, as in a single scene of a motion picture.
难闻	这些腐烂的香蕉发出nan2wen2的气味.	These rotting bananas are giving off a bad smell.
螺旋	有线圈的设备这样的luo2xuan2线圈是主要部件的	Any of various devices of which such a spiral is the major component.
移民局	yi2min2ju2的官员将要求你出示证件.	Immigration officials will ask to see your papers.
带动	在他的dai4dong4下，战士们斗志昂扬。	His example kept the fighters in high spirits.
窗台	他把一些书放在chuang1tai2上。	He keeps some books on the window ledge.
宫廷	所罗门国王的gong1ting2以其华丽著称。	The court of King Solomon was noted for its splendor.
破晓	雨后的清晨，天一po4xiao3就晴空万里。	The morning dawned clear after the rain.
榨	要从小诗人那儿zha4出钱来，得施行一次大手术。	It take a major operation to extract money from a minor poet.
遵从	她拒绝zun1cong2正常的社会习俗。	She refused to conform to the normal social conventions.
京城	阳光透过万里碧空照耀着北jing1cheng2。	From a sky of untarnished blue the sun beamed down upon Beijing.
修剪	我看到他正在给玫瑰xiu1jian3枝条。	I found him pruning his roses.
于是乎	他听说过人是有一定的自由（纬度）与寡妇来往的，yu2shi4hu1他就追求180度的全部自由去了。	He has heard that one is permit a certain latitude with widow, and goes in for the whole180 degrees.
礼堂	把学生召集到学校的li3tang2里.	Summon the pupils together in the school hall.
写字	孩子们正在学习读书xie3zi4.	The children are learning to read and write.
引领	护卫队，仪仗队，护送者陪同别人，进行yin3ling3、保护或表示尊敬的一个或若干人	One or more persons accompanying another to guide, protect, or show honor.
往外	啤酒瓶底的沉淀物一到瓶颈部位，就不要wang3 wai4倒啤酒了。此时你的一杯啤酒会金灿灿地发亮，酒泡鼓出酒杯口，而又不会溢出杯外。	As soon as the sediment starts creeping up the shoulder of the bottle, stop pouring. You should now have a glass of star-bright beer with a head(of foam) that stands proud of the glass but does not overflow.
公分	他比她高5gong1fen1。	He is 5 centimeters taller than her.
头颅	那农民耕地时挖出一个人类的tou1lu2骨。	The farmer turns up a human skull while ploughs the field.
辞去	我现在ci2qu4主席职位，交由我的副手接替。	I am resigning as chairman and handing over to my deputy.
宣读	法官向罪犯xuan1du2了判决。	The bench read the sentence to the criminal.
小溪	xiao3xi1在这儿分岔。	The stream diverges here.
通畅	水从管道里tong1chang4地流了出来。	A free flow of water came from the pipe.
花边	她的裙子有非常精致的hua1bian1。	Her skirt has very exquisite lace.
甘蔗	糖大多是用gan1zhe5和甜菜制的。	Most sugar comes from sugar-cane and sugar-beet.
切割	qie1ge1部分从主体上qie1ge1下来的部分	A part cut off from a main body.
倾倒	她的清秀美丽使他qing1dao3。	Her comeliness overwhelmed him.
油菜	那里的农民过去总是让羊吃掉田里的you2cai4，这样好把它们养壮了送进屠宰场。	Farmers there used to eat off the coleseed with sheep so as to make them fit for the butcher.
柱子	这些zhu4zi5支撑著屋顶的重量.	These pillars carry the weight of the roof.
依次	学生yi1ci4朗读他们各自的作业。	The pupils took turns in reading out their work.
接口	螺纹jie1kou3用于接合电气装置和引出盒的螺纹jie1kou3	A threaded electrical fitting to connect a fixture to an outlet box.
做工	我们的地毯是用中国纯羊毛手工织成的。它们富有弹性且zuo4gong1精细。	Our carpet is hand- made of pure chinese wool. They are resilient and have fine workmanship.
减弱	暴风雨的威力已经jian3ruo4.	The fury of the storm abated.
谢意	这些花是用来对您的恩惠略表xie4yi4的.	These flowers are a small acknowledgement of your great kindness.
内阁	他们行使了nei4ge2否决权。	They carried the ministerial veto.
列为	凡得90分的学生lie4wei2甲等.	A student who gets 90% is graded A.
成品	在这个试验车道，标准汽车cheng2pin3将接受有意的毁坏性测试。	On this test track, the standard production cars will be subjected to rough treatment deliberately.
流浪者	他是个衣衫褴褛的liu2lang4zhe3。	He is a tramp in shabby old clothes.
宇	yu3宙存在于太空。	The universe exists in space.
诗意	图上交错的树枝看起来很有shi1yi4。	The interlacing branches on the picture look poetic.
发牢骚	她未曾想fa1 lao2sao5无形中反倒帮了彼得的忙.	She didn't realize that by complaining she was only playing Peter's game.
犹豫不决	就在我们you2yu4-bu4jue2的时候, 别人把那所房子买下了.	While we were wavering, somebody else bought the house.
颜料	我已经把yan2liao4和油混合起来了。	I have mixed pigment with oil.
只顾	那孩子zhi3gu4著吹笛子.	The child occupied himself in playing his flute.
铁轨	失事的火车横在tie3gui3上.	The wrecked train lay aslant the track.
说明书	人家不看使用shuo1ming2shu1, 我又有什麽办法呢?	Can I help it (ie Is it my fault) if people don't read the instructions?
帆船	我喜欢fan1chuan2运动.	I love sailing.
春雨	chun1yu3带来了夏日百花。	Spring rains bring summer flowers.
粗俗	庸俗，cu1su2庸俗的品质或环境	The quality or condition of being vulgar.
好说	关于那件事, 我没什么hao3shuo1的。	I have nothing to say in relation to that matter.
限于	短暂的仅xian4yu2一个插曲持续的时间；短暂的	Limited to the duration of an episode; temporary.
上流	该瀑布shang4liu2有许多大麻哈鱼.	The falls upstream are full of salmon.
冒雨	我mao4yu3出去，结果被淋得湿透了。	I went out in the rain and got wet through.
拍打	雪花轻轻pai1da5着窗户。	Snowflakes were patting against the window.
今晨	jin1chen2发布的政府公报宣称....	A government communique, issued this morning, states that...
痛不欲生	马克捶胸顿足，tong4bu4yu4sheng1。	Mark beat his breast in agony.
典范	他给后世留下了不朽的dian3fan4。	He left behind an immortal example to all posterity.
咕	直接从碗里gu1嘟gu1嘟地喝汤是粗俗的	Slurping soup directly from the bowl is vulgar.
粗话	他们对她的cu1hua4不予理会.	They chose to pass over her rude remarks.
猜中	他一下子就cai1zhong4了谜底.	He got the answer to the riddle as quick as a flash.
敌军	他们用机枪扫射进攻的di2jun1.	They machine-gunned the advancing troops.
必不可少	滚筒是洗衣机bi4bu4ke3shao3的部分。	The cylinder is a crucial part of the washing machine.
哲学家	这个男孩想在将来成为一名zhe2xue2jia1。	The boy wants to become a philosopher in the future.
圣洁	她是一个sheng4jie2的女人，天真而忠贞。	She was a holy woman, innocent and chaste.
惶恐	她在huang2kong3中跪下。	She dropped to her knees in a panic.
物件	黄铜制品用这种合金制的装饰品、wu4jian4或器皿	Ornaments, objects, or utensils made of this alloy.
心烦意乱	别玩弄那姑娘的感情--难道没看到你已经把她弄得xin1fan2-yi4luan4了吗?	Stop playing fast and loose with that girl's feelings can't you see you're upsetting her?
这会儿	zhe4hui4r5我不想出去散步。	I don't feel like a walk just now.
动议	这一提案[dong4yi4/决议]以340票对210票获得通过.	The bill/motion/resolution was carried by 340 votes to 210.
州立	时间过得真快，转眼间你就将中学毕业，并拟于秋季进入zhou1li4大学了！	How time flies! Here you are graduating from high school and planning to attend State University in the fall.
燕麦	yan4mai4主要生长在气候凉爽的地区。	Oats mainly grow in cool climate.
电缆	他们正在建设一条海底dian4lan3隧道。	They are building a submarine cable tunnel.
信奉	破坏主义者xin4feng4或提倡毁灭（尤指现存的社会制度）的人	One who believes in or advocates destruction, especially of existing social institutions.
太阳穴	那人tai4yang2xue2上贴了一块膏药，看上去像个卡通人物。	The man looks like a cartoon character with a plaster on his temple.
得救	现在只有出现奇迹她才能de2jiu4。	Nothing but a miracle can save her now.
秃头	你知道[听说过]那个tu1tou2警察的笑话吗?	Do you know/Have you heard the one about the bald policeman?
精髓	那个理论的jing1sui3是为人民服务。	The pith of that theory is serving for people.
底层	di3ceng2很潮湿。	The underneath part felt damp.
狂人	全是kuang2ren2，不过，凡是能够分析自己的妄想者就被称为哲学家。	All are lunatics, but he who can analyze he delusion is called a philosopher.
火炉	一个厨房里的小huo3lu2就会把整个房子都熏黑。	One small fire in the kitchen will cover the whole house in soot.
伪君子	＂他是个wei3jun1zi3，从不尽力帮助任何人。＂	He is a hypocrite and never exerts himself to help anyone.
生命力	久病後他的sheng1ming4li4逐渐在枯竭。	His life is slowly draining away after a long illness.
刊	社会年kan1已经出版了。	The annals of the society have been published.
纱布	裹在他伤口上的sha1bu4脏了。	The gauze patch applied to his wound is dirty.
浓烈	nong2lie4的气味辛辣或nong2lie4的	Sharp or pungent to the smell.
氧化	水由氢和yang3hua4合而成。	Water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen.
病菌	我也认为不卫生，但是我对bing4jun1的抵抗力很高。	I don't think so, either, but my resistance to germs is high.
布景	我们需要有人自愿帮忙把bu4jing3搭起、 画好.	We need volunteers to help build and paint the set.
券	失败的队；未中的彩quan4	A losing team; a losing lottery ticket.
轻声	我们qing1sheng1谈话, 以免吵醒婴儿.	We spoke in whispers for fear of waking the baby/for fear (that) we might wake the baby.
放射性	铜铀云母一种绿色的fang4she4xing4矿物，为铀和铜的氢化结晶云母	A green radioactive mineral that is a hydrous crystalline phosphate of uranium and copper.
版权	ban3quan2在作者死後50年即行终止.	Copyright expires 50 years after the death of the author.
乌托邦	wu1tuo1bang1思想及理论空想社会主义者的理想或原则；理想但不切实际的社会主义学说	The ideals or principles of a utopian; idealistic and impractical social theory.
心满意足	他带着xin1man3-yi4zu2的微笑告诉了我们。	He told us with a smile of contentment.
顶端	他登上ding3duan1时气喘得很厉害.	He was quite puffed by the time he reached the top.
支架	工人在墙上固定了一个zhi1jia4。	The worker fixed a bracket on the wall.
欢心	杰克曲意巴结，赢得了她的huan1xin1。	Jack insinuated himself into her favour.
搅和	她把糖jiao3huo5到咖啡里。	She stirred the sugar into her coffee.
开价	您只要把我们的报价与其他供应商的kai1jia4相比较就会知道我方价格多么优惠。	If you compare our quotation with those offer by other supplier, you'll see how favorable ours be.
螺丝	这张桌子的腿是用luo2si1固定在地板上的。	The table legs are screwed to the floor.
药房	拿这个处方到yao4fang2，他们就会给你配药了。	Take the prescription to the dispensary and they'll make it out.
教科书	她是活的医学jiao4ke1shu1.	She's a walking textbook of medicine.
搁浅	那船牢牢地ge1qian3在沙洲上.	The ship stuck fast on the bar.
拳击手	他不只是quan2ji1shou3, 还是世界冠军呢.	He's not a mere boxer: he's world champion.
世界杯	Shi4jie4bei1决赛现在正向五十多个国家现场转播。	The World Cup final is being transmitted live to over fifty countries.
银幕	电视、广播或演出节目为舞台、yin2mu4、电视或电台制作的作品	A work produced for the stage, screen, television, or radio.
互助	英国人在任何动乱的年代都要重温战争时期的日子，那时人们都友好hu4zhu4。	In any troubled times, the British tend to hark back to wartime days, when people helped each other in a friendly spirit.
稀释	颜料溶解液，展色剂用以xi1shi4颜料至合适浓度的xi1shi4液	A solvent with which paint is thinned to the proper consistency.
扩展	工厂的kuo4zhan3意味著将增雇六十名工人.	The expansion of the factory will mean the employment of sixty extra workers.
不停	他bu4ting2地照著树干砍去.	He was hewing away at the trunk of the tree.
沉没	小船chen2mo4在波涛之中。	The boat dipped into the waves.
顶峰	他已经登上事业的ding3feng1。	He has reached the pinnacle of his career.
相撞	这两辆汽车迎面xiang1zhuang4。	The two cars met head-on.
舒舒服服	要不是办像酿酒厂或保险公司这样的副业，他们没有多少人只靠艺术就能过的shu1shu5fu5fu5。	Few of them managed to make a good living out of their art alone, without running a sideline such as a brewery or an insurance office.
交织	喜悦和惊异jiao1zhi1在一起。	Joy mingled with surprises.
扶持	政府不应浪费资金去fu2chi2那些无望的企业.	The government should not waste money supporting lame ducks.
埋头	她在mai2tou2读书.	Her head was buried in the book she was reading.
残暴	她受到他们极为can2bao4的待遇。	She received the most barbarous treatment.
阵营	你和我属于不同的政治zhen4ying2。	You and I belong to different political camps.
治病	预防胜于治疗（zhi4bing4不如防病）。	Prevention is better than cure.
撕碎	饥饿的狮子si1sui4了猎物。	The ravenous lion tore the quarry.
覆	也无须柏树来荫fu4。	Nor shady cypress tree.
千真万确	可是我在一家迪斯科舞会上亲眼看到他，qian1zhen1-wan4que4，他在和一个年龄只他一半大的姑娘跳舞。	But I saw him myself in a disco as large as life, dancing with a girl half his age.
暴动	警方得到了他们在策划着bao4dong4的情报。	The police had a tip that they were plotting a riot.
胶囊	jiao1nang2里充满了可溶的小颗粒。	The capsule is filled with small soluble cases.
双亲	这个孩子的教育来自他慈爱的shuang1qin1。	The child got his nurture from his loving parents.
摆布	我们是听任命运bai3bu5的傀儡吗？	Are we the puppets of fate?
真意	她真心zhen1yi4的帮助我。	She helps me with heartfelt feeling.
不可或缺	目前计算机是很多公司bu4ke3-huo4que1的用具。	The computer is now an indispensable tool in many businesses.
花招	用那样的hua1zhao1欺负一个老太太, 可真卑鄙.	That was a scurvy trick to play on an old lady.
领奖	他应该亲自来ling3jiang3才对.	It was fitting that he should be here to receive the prize in person.
叙利亚	欧洲新闻界常把里根先生描绘成钉住卡扎菲上校不放，譬如说对Xu4li4ya4则睁一眼闭一眼。据说叙国也有化学武器，并与恐怖活动有关。	And in the European press, Mr. Reagan was frequently portrayed as fixated on Colonel Qaddafi, turning a blind eye, for example, to Syria, which is also said to have chemical weapons and has also been tied to terrorism.
新潮	时装xin1chao2很快就在全世界流行起来。	Fashion trends diffuse themselves rapidly around the globe.
乌龙	wu1long2（茶）一种在干燥前局部发酵的中国红茶	A dark Chinese tea that has been partially fermented before drying.
常用	沥青chang2yong4于铺路。	Asphalt is used for making road surfaces.
机枪	我们的ji1qiang1扫倒了向前推进的一排排敌方步兵。	Our machineguns mowed down the advancing lines of enemy infantry men.
慰藉	长期的乾旱之后有雨是一大wei4jie4。	It is a great relief to have rain after a long time of drought.
休克	谵妄一种暂时精神混乱和神志不清的状态，由高烧、酒醉、xiu1ke4、震惊或其它原因导致。其症状是：焦虑、迷失方向、发生幻觉、妄想、颤抖和说胡话	A temporary state of mental confusion and clouded consciousness resulting from high fever, intoxication, shock, or other causes. It is characterized by anxiety, disorientation, hallucinations, delusions, trembling, and incoherent speech.
囊	池有机体体内一种贮存流体的液nang2或穴	A fluid-containing sac or cavity in the body of an organism.
加冕	女王以传统仪式举行了jia1mian3礼。	The queen was crowned with proper ceremony.
疯疯癫癫	他有点feng1feng5-dian1dian1。	He has a touch of madness in his composition.
筋疲力尽	我已jin1pi2-li4jin4了!	I'm exhausted!
筹集	chou2ji2的资金没达到所需的数额.	The money collected fell short of the amount required.
席位	他为竞选国会议员xi2wei4进行游说。	He canvassed for a seat in Parliament.
士气	他们那一球进得漂亮, 鼓舞了全队的shi4qi4夺取胜利.	The magnificent goal spurred the team on to victory.
止步	他见到尸体厌恶得zhi3bu4不前.	He recoiled at the sight of the corpse.
布料	是用两幅bu4liao4拼成的这个帘子.	Two widths of cloth were joined to make the curtain.
葡萄牙	卢西塔尼亚古代一个地区，是古罗马帝国在伊伯利亚半岛的一个省份，大致相当于今天的Pu2tao2ya2	An ancient region and Roman province of the Iberian Peninsula. It corresponded roughly to modern-day Portugal.
谦卑	谦逊的以一种qian1bei1或温顺的方式	In a meek or humble manner.
出声	塞口物，口衔强塞进嘴里或压在嘴上防止chu1sheng1的东西	Something forced into or put over the mouth to prevent speaking or crying out.
获利	雷吉参与了这个公司的创办，公司发展了，他也huo4li4了。	Reg had got in on the ground floor, and as the firm had progressed, so had he.
总计	观众zong3ji4达两万人。	The audience totalled20, 000.
梳理	他进去见她之前，用水将头发shu1li3得很光亮。	He sleeked back his hair with water before going in to meet her.
舞厅	我们已经准备好拍摄（wu3ting1的连续镜头）.	We're ready to shoot (the ballroom sequence).
判处	罪犯被pan4chu3死刑。	The criminal was sentenced to capital punishment.
恩赐	碰到这样容易的考卷, 那是老天爷的en1ci4.	To have such an easy examination paper was a gift from the gods.
炸毁	港口附近的兵站被敌人zha4hui3了。	The depot near the harbor was bombed by the enemy.
现今	xian4jin1生活分成工作和闲暇两部分.	Life today is compartmentalized into work and leisure.
邮递员	you2di4yuan2的工作，不论天气如何，概括地说来就是“送信”。	The mailman's job, in all kinds of weather, is summed up in the phrase""Deliver the mail.""
险境	士兵们仍然固守城堡，但他们已陷于xian3jing4。	The soldiers are still holding the fort, but they're hanging on by their eyelids.
使馆	特命全权公使派驻国外shi3guan3的特命全权使节，仅低于大使	A minister plenipotentiary assigned to a foreign embassy, ranking next below the ambassador.
掉下	从三楼diao4xia4而没有受伤，这怎么可能呢？	How was it possible to fall down from the third floor without being hurt?
胡话	谵妄一种暂时精神混乱和神志不清的状态，由高烧、酒醉、休克、震惊或其它原因导致。其症状是：焦虑、迷失方向、发生幻觉、妄想、颤抖和说hu2hua4	A temporary state of mental confusion and clouded consciousness resulting from high fever, intoxication, shock, or other causes. It is characterized by anxiety, disorientation, hallucinations, delusions, trembling, and incoherent speech.
初次	我们chu1ci4见面时相互打量了一番.	We sized each other up at our first meeting.
无可奉告	他由于wu2ke3-feng4gao4，拒绝了记者采访。	As he had nothing to tell, he refused to give any interviews to the journalists.
断断续续	整天duan4duan4xu4xu4地下著雨。	It rained on and off all day.
缸	大浅桶主要供酿酒商用的一种浅的盆或gang1	A shallow vat or tub used chiefly by brewers.
手杖	这老人没有shou3zhang4就走不了路。	The old man could not walk without a stick.
贬值	该公司的股票已经bian3zhi2.	Shares in the company have depreciated.
磁场	检流计，电流计一种仪器，用以探测、测量和测定微小电流方向，采用线圈在ci2chang3中产生的机械效果的方法	An instrument used to detect, measure, and determine the direction of small electric currents by means of mechanical effects produced by a coil in a magnetic field.
唾液	tuo4ye4是由口腔的tuo4ye4腺分泌出来的.	Saliva is secreted by glands in the mouth.
灰蒙蒙	天色hui1meng1meng1的。	The sky was over cast.
血汗	工厂主们使用xue4han4劳动为自己挣得大量财产。	The mill owners used sweated labour to earn them fortunes.
萧条	没有迹象表明xiao1tiao2已经到了极点.	There is no sign that the recession has bottomed out yet.
难为情	你当众纠正我的错误, 弄得我很nan2wei2qing2.	You made me look so small, correcting me in front of everybody.
烤火	先让我烤kao3huo3暖和一下，然后我们开始谈话。	Just give me a minute to thaw out in front of the fire, then we can talk.
案情	律师必须了解an4qing2的所有细节。	The lawyer must know all the particulars of the case.
金黄色	jin1huang2se4是很亮的黄色。	Saffron is very bright yellow.
直至	沿路前行zhi2zhi4有交通灯处.	Go down the road till you reach the traffic lights.
老汉	那lao3han4正在吸著烟斗.	The old man was sucking at his pipe.
急速	这只猫ji2su4摇动着尾巴。	The cat lashed her tail.
世家	他出生于一个历史悠久的演员shi4jia1。	He comes from a long line of actors.
下达	军官用无线电向士兵xia4da2命令.	The officer communicated his orders to the men by radio.
予以	公司仅在雇员严重失职的情形下才yu3yi3解雇.	The company only dismisses its employees in cases of gross misconduct.
绘制	瞧霜大哥在窗户上hui4zhi4了多麽美丽的图案.	Look what pretty patterns Jack Frost has painted on the windows.
呼噜	那只猫大声地发出hu1lu5hu1lu5声。	The cat purred loudly.
委婉	｀去世＇是｀死＇的wei3wan3说法.	`Pass away' is a euphemism for `die'.
叛变	pan4bian4被镇压了。	The rebellion was put down.
核实	我试图将账目he2shi2一下，但变更或销掉账目实在太多，真是令人头痛。	I tried to check the accounts but there are so many entries altered or crossed out that it makes one's mind boggle.
养家	我父亲辛苦地工作为了yang3jia1。	My father works hard in order that he may support us.
挖苦	她冲他说一些刻薄的wa1ku5话.	She makes mean little digs at him.
斑马	杂交ban1ma3ban1ma3与马杂交的后代	The hybrid offspring of a zebra and a horse.
矿物质	植物从泥土中吸收kuang4wu4zhi4和其他养料。	Plants absorb minerals and other nutrients from the soil.
改动	最近供暖设备已稍加gai3dong4以提高效率.	The heating system has recently been modified to make it more efficient.
飞机场	我们都去fei1ji1chang3为她送行了.	We all went to the airport to see her off.
浪潮	知道“第三次lang4chao2”吗？	Know anything about the third wave?
萎缩	经济正在wei3suo1而不是在增长中。	The economy is shrinking instead of growing.
高高兴兴	夏天他总是gao1gao1xing4xing4的。	He's always full of cheer in summer.
垂	她的头发几乎chui2到了腰部.	Her hair nearly reached down to her waist.
疑心	他这人yi2xin1太重, 连自己的母亲也不相信.	He's so suspicious he would distrust his own mother.
期末考	比赛是如此令人兴奋，以致我把即将来临的qi1mo4kao3忘得一乾二净。	So exciting was the game that I forgot all about the coming finals.
天冷	这种液体tian1leng3时凝结得快些.	This liquid gels faster in cold weather.
披露	报告pi1lu4他曾坐过牢。	The report disclosed that he had served in prison.
选用	诗以生动的和充满想象的方式来表达经验、思想或情感的口述文学作品，以运用其声音和暗示力而xuan3yong4浓缩的语言为特征，并运用如节奏、暗喻和音韵等文学手法	A verbal composition designed to convey experiences, ideas, or emotions in a vivid and imaginative way, characterized by the use of condensed language chosen for its sound and suggestive power and by the use of literary techniques such as meter, metaphor, and rhyme.
断裂	大多数松木燃烧时都发出duan4lie4声。	Most pine snaps as it burns.
贪图	他认为tan1tu2他人的财物是有罪的。	He thinks it's a sin to covet other's properties.
故宫	不论何时我到台北，我一定去参观gu4gong1博物院。	Whenever I go to Taipei, I make a point of visiting the National Palace Museum.
怨言	修路引起周围居民很多yuan4yan2.	The road-works caused much complaint among local residents.
天宫	过渡过渡点或过渡时间，尤指占星术的两个tian1gong1之间的	A transitional point or time, as between two astrological signs.
下棋	你爱xia4qi2[打乒乓球]吗？	Do you like to play chess [table tennis]?
怀特	Huai2te4霍尔街上流传著谣言.	Rumours are circulating in Whitehall.
低声	他们di1sheng1说话，唯恐被别人听见。	They spoke in whispers lest they should be heard.
行使	他们xing2shi3了内阁否决权。	They carried the ministerial veto.
新兵	连长说军队生活可以使xin1bing1锻炼得更坚强。	The company leader said that army life would toughen the recruits up.
肺炎	他得了fei4yan2。	He has an inflammation of the lungs.
烟囱	yan1cong1里冒出来团团黑烟.	Volumes of black smoke poured fromthe chimney.
问路	开口wen4lu4，罗马可赴。	He who has a tongue go to rome.
邮政	你现在能帮我兑现这张you2zheng4汇票吗？	Can you cash this postal order for me now?
擦掉	谁把我写在黑板上的数字ca1diao4了?	Who's rubbed my figures off the blackboard?
配料	她用金属铲抹平了蛋糕pei4liao4.	She levelled the surface of the cake mixture with a metal spatula.
家电	这个节目在哪jia1dian4视台播放?	Which TV station is the programme on?
器械	鞍马是很难掌握的qi4xie4.	The vaulting horse is a difficult piece of apparatus to master.
杂耍	娱乐场，游乐场在商品交易会、狂欢节、马戏团或展览会所在地提供za2shua3表演和其它娱乐活动的地方	The area of a fair, a carnival, a circus, or an exposition where sideshows and other amusements are located.
颈部	水升到我的jing3bu4.	The water came up to my neck.
刺痛	明亮的灯光ci4tong4了我的眼睛。	The light hurt my eyes with its brightness.
哈哈大笑	孩子们让小丑的滑稽动作逗得ha1ha1da4xiao4.	The children laughed with glee at the clown's antics.
依稀	有一所房子的模糊轮廓yi1xi1可辨.	The dim outline of a house could be made out.
确诊	我准备做一次咽喉细菌培养，以便que4zhen3。	I am going to take a throat culture so we'll know for sure.
酒醉	谵妄一种暂时精神混乱和神志不清的状态，由高烧、jiu3zui4、休克、震惊或其它原因导致。其症状是：焦虑、迷失方向、发生幻觉、妄想、颤抖和说胡话	A temporary state of mental confusion and clouded consciousness resulting from high fever, intoxication, shock, or other causes. It is characterized by anxiety, disorientation, hallucinations, delusions, trembling, and incoherent speech.
侍者	一个shi4zhe3给他端来一杯稀咖啡。	A waiter brought him a watery coffee.
组长	文书zu3zhang3负责监督该部门的工作.	The chief clerk supervises the work of the department.
战线	游击队在那个省开辟了一条新zhan4xian4。	The guerrillas opened up a new front in that province.
尺码	您知道，我们可以供应各种类型和chi3ma3的机床。	As you know, we can supply machine tools of all types and size.
立正	他li4zheng4敬礼，鞋后跟发出咔嗒一声。	He saluted with a click of his heels.
猎手	由于他打死了不少狼，他享有模范lie4shou3的称号。	He holds the title of model hunter for the number of wolves he has killed.
入境	ru4jing4时，我的提包受到了检查。	My bags were examined when I entered the country.
钝	我的铅笔dun4了，你能借我把刀子削一削吗？	My pencil is blunt, could you lend me a knife to sharpen it?
多管闲事	你老是duo1 guan3 xian2shi4.	You're always meddling.
静谧	还有，尽管这光芒使人眼花缭乱，但它确实传送了一种我们未曾经历的和无法想象的美和jing4mi4的启示。	And, though the gleams blind and dazzle, yet do they convey a hint of beauty and serenity greater that we have known or imagined.
耐力	nai4li4忍受困难和痛苦的能力	The capacity to endure hardship or pain.
抚慰	医治者，fu3wei4者治愈别人的人，具有治愈影响的人	A person who heals or exerts a healing influence.
京剧	有些上了年纪的人非常喜爱Jing1ju4。	Some elder people enjoy Beijing opera immensely.
演艺	好莱坞的yan3yi4人才。	Hollywood talents.
个儿	一个英国人，尽管只有他一个人，也会独ge4r5排成整整齐齐的一队。	An Englishman, even if he is alone, forms an orderly queue of one.
怒气	她的亲切平息了我的nu4qi4。	Her tenderness soothed my anger.
施压	赫德并未讨论限期，可是他告诉英国广播公司说，国际联盟“行将达到的阶段是：大家都对现局加以估计，看我们所建立的以和平方式shi1ya1是否有效。”	Mr.Hurd did not discuss deadlines, but he told the BBC that the international coalition was""approaching the stage when we all take stock and see if the peaceful pressures which we have been constructing are going to be good enough.""
落空	今日发射宇宙飞船的计画, 因天气恶劣而luo4kong1.	Bad weather has frustrated plans to launch the spacecraft today.
安家	这个小镇很适宜于一位青年医生an1jia1。	The town is a good location for a young doctor.
理应	如果货物品质不好，则li3ying1向制造商提出控诉。	If goods were not well made, you shall complain to the manufacturer.
构造	侧面从侧面观看的物体或gou4zao4，尤指人的脑袋	A side view of an object or a structure, especially of the human head.
文盲	wen2mang2，生活中的严重障碍	Illiteracy, a serious handicap in life.
敌对	他有幽默感, 这是他对付他们的di2dui4行动的唯一手段.	Humour was his only weapon against their hostility.
蒙在鼓里	别再让我们meng2 zai4 gu3li3了, 结局究竟怎麽样?	Don't keep us in suspense any longer -- what happens at the end of the story?
传讯	他因蔑视法庭而被chuan2xun4。	He was cited for contempt of court.
录音带	我想用迈克尔·杰克逊的lu4yin1dai4交换你的布鲁斯·斯普林斯廷唱片集.	I'll swap (you) my Michael Jackson tape for your Bruce Springsteen album.
伙食	共餐者，huo3shi2团经常一块用膳的一群人，通常指士兵或水手	A group of people, usually soldiers or sailors, who regularly eat meals together.
属实	这项通告证明了我的猜疑shu3shi2.	The announcement confirmed my suspicions.
空前	我们现在正经历规模kong1qian2的失业现象。	We are seeing unemployment on an unprecedented scale.
盔甲	kui1jia3防护性外套，如锁子甲，穿上后保护身体免受武器攻击	A defensive covering, such as chain mail, worn to protect the body against weapons.
清扫	这地板需要好好qing1sao3一下。	This floor needs a good sweep.
上好	本届政府并没有显示出应有的远见，应有的常识，不能看出这些人民正以伟大的战争来换取自由。换取更好的生活水平，过shang4hao3日子。	I don't think this Administration has shown the foresight, has shown the knowledge, has been identified with the great fight which these people are waging to be free, to get a better standard of living, to live better.
共产主义	他们都相信gong4chan3zhu3yi4。	They all believe in communism.
增大	这些发展促使家用电脑的需求量zeng1da4。	These developments have created a great demand for home computers.
焕然一新	好好收拾一下的确会使房子huan4ran2 yi1 xin1.	A good clean will really freshen (up) the house.
架势	亨利认为他总是对的，如果有人敢于反驳他的话，他就摆出一副盛气凌人的jia4shi5。	Henry thinks he is always right and gets on his high horse if anyone dares to contradict him.
多于	咬文嚼字者爱用言辞duo1yu2思想或实质的人	One who favors words over ideas or substance.
餐饮	他经营can1yin3业。	He carries on a food business.
日文	汉字与Ri4wen2之间有密切关系。	There is an affinity between Chinese and Japanese character.
创办	他着手chuang4ban4新企业。	He embarked on a new enterprise.
三角洲	尼罗河san1jiao3zhou1土地肥沃。	There are fertile fields in the Nile Delta.
削减	政府打算xue1jian3军备开支。	The government intends to cut expenditure on arms.
凄惨	在悬而未决的状态之下过日子是qi1can3的，是蜘蛛的生活嘛。	It is a miserable thing to live in suspense; it is a life of a spider.
捏造	那纯粹是nie1zao4的!	That's pure fabrication!
松弛	一到周末纪律往往song1chi2下来.	Discipline is often relaxed at weekends.
火把	这场huo3ba3城市上空映得一片通红。	The fire cast a ruddy glow over the city.
奉承	有人feng4cheng5你时, 一定要当心。	Be on guard when somebody flatters you.
苏丹	su1dan1是某些穆斯林国家的最高统治者。	Sultan is sovereign ruler of certain Muslim countries.
过份	她对他们guo4fen4和气。	She lavished kindness on them.
试一试	我们的新型洗衣粉顾客都很满意, 成千上万的人不可能都错了, 您也不妨shi4yi1shi4好吗?	Thousands of satisfied customers can't be wrong, so why don't you try our new washing-powder?
统治者	诺曼人征服了英格兰成了tong3zhi4zhe3。	The Normans ruled England by right of conquest.
布道	一大群人聚集起来听他bu4dao4.	A large multitude had assembled to hear him preach.
签订	我们为了双方的利益qian1ding4这项合同。	We entered into this contract in the interests of both parties.
缝隙	裂缝土地表面上深的、陡峭的feng4xi4；深渊或峡谷	A deep, steep-sided opening in the earth's surface; an abyss or a gorge.
一连串	多么不幸的yi1lian2chuan4事件!	What an unlucky train of events!
下岗	xia4gang3职工陷入贫困。	Laid-off workers fall into penury.
军装	那位穿jun1zhuang1的人恐怕就是团长了。	The man in the army uniform will be the regiment commander.
溺水	他从桥上跳入水中去抢救那ni4shui3儿童.	He dived from the bridge to rescue the drowning child.
裸露	luo3lu4的伤口很快就受到了感染。	The open wound soon became infected.
作曲	他7岁时就会钢琴zuo4qu3。	He was composing at the piano at the age of seven.
医务	由于患有“运动员心脏”症，西蒙没有通过警方yi1wu4处的体格检查。	Simon failed to qualify before the Medical Board of the police because he had an""athlete's heart"".
钟表	在春天，我们通常将zhong1biao3向前拔一小时，以利用夏天的日光。	In spring, we usually set the clock ahead one hour, to take advantage of the summer daylight.
发号施令	他习惯于fa1hao4-shi1ling4，而不是恳求他人。	He was accustomed to command, not to entreat.
撤回	若不立即签署合同我就che4hui2我提出的条件.	Unless the contract is signed immediately, I shall withdraw my offer.
一路顺风	祝你yi1lu4 shun4feng1。	May you have a fine trip.
心怀	他一直对我xin1huai2嫉妒.	He has been harbouring/nursing a grudge against me.
划船	hua2chuan2把我送到对岸去吧.	Row me across (the river).
亲属	新娘的男qin1shu3们聚集在一起为婚礼做准备。	The bride's kinsman gathered to make preparations for the wedding.
不切实际	那是一项bu4qie4 shi2ji4的计画。	It isn't a realistic plan.
集装箱	这个ji2zhuang1xiang1的体积是20立方米。	The volume of this container is 20 cubic meters.
走错	我们不会zou3cuo4路的, 因为我对这儿的街道非常熟悉。	We won't go wrong, because I'm quite familiar with the streets here.
头巾	她头上带着一块黄色的tou2jin1。	She wore on her head a yellow kerchief.
粪便	动物的fen4bian4可以作为肥料使用。	Animal dung may be used as manure.
行家	用廉价的仿制品骗不了hang2jia5.	You can't fob an expert off with cheap imitations.
告终	这次海战以我们的胜利而gao4zhong1。	The naval warfare ended in our victory.
依照	yi1zhao4你的指示我去了那个地方。	I went to the place in conformity with your instructions.
不起眼	他的家乡只是地图上一个bu4qi3yan3的小城。	His hometown is an insignificant city on the map.
干枯	酷热使池水gan1ku1。	The intense heat has dried up the pond.
熄灯	xi1deng1後不许说话.	No talking after lights out.
部件	制造这些小bu4jian4是非常昂贵的。	The manufacture of these small components is expensive.
泼妇	人们叫她po1fu4。	People called her shrew.
损	他的名誉完整无sun3。	His honor remained intact.
电路	dian4lu4中一定有断路.	There must be a break in the circuit.
肉饼	牛肉糜压缩饼一种主要由牛肉、水果干和硬脂肪压制成的干rou4bing3，用作食物紧缺时的定量配给口粮	A food made chiefly from beef, dried fruit, and suet, used as emergency rations.
会死	据说谁要摸了这棵树，谁就要倒霉；如果他摘了一片叶子，他就hui4si3。	It is said that if anyone touches the tree, he will have bad luck; if he picks a leaf, he will die.
围墙	他们在wei2qiang2下面挖地道通向远处林中.	They tunnelled along under the walls and up into the woods beyond.
叛军	上个月数百名妇女儿童死于pan4jun1的炮火。	Hundreds of women and children fell to the rebels’ gunfire last month.
弃权	对于这项建议，五人投票赞成，八人反对，两人qi4quan2。	Five members voted for the proposal, eight voted against, and two abstained.
木星	我们太阳系的行星有水星、金星、地球、火星、mu4xing1、土星、天王星和海王星。	The planets of our solar system are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.
宽大	鄙俗的心胸不kuan1da4的	Lacking liberal culture.
英国人	她是Ying1guo2ren2, 但也有一些德国亲戚.	She is British but also has German connections.
输掉	尽管我们尽了全力，我们还是shu1diao4了比赛。	Despite all our efforts we still lost the game.
优良	两个队都表现了高超的技艺和you1liang2的作风。	Both teams displayed first-rate technique and a fine spirit.
凶猛	凶恶，残忍凶恶的状态或特点；xiong1meng3	The state or quality of being ferocious; fierceness.
厚度	这冰的hou4du4能禁得住在上边滑冰吗?	Is the ice thick enough for skating?
机能	精神起因一种由心理因素而不是生理因素引起的身体ji1neng2失调或疾病	Development of a physical disorder or illness resulting from psychic, rather than physiological, factors.
毛皮	鹿角嫩皮，鹿茸在成长期中的鹿角上的柔软的mao2pi2覆盖物	The soft, furry covering on the developing antlers of deer.
传染病	白喉是一种严重的chuan2ran3bing4。	Diphtheria is a serious infectious disease.
虽说	她受聘sui1shuo1是临时性的, 但却是一大成功.	Her appointment was a significant, (al)though/albeit temporary success.
金银	jin1yin2线镶边衣物的装饰必镶边，如流通带、饰带或金属珠子	Ornamental trimming for a garment, as braid, lace, or metallic beads.
偷袭	前哨派驻在离主力部队很远的地带的支队以防敌人的tou1xi2	A detachment of troops stationed at a distance from a main force to guard against surprise attacks.
耿耿于怀	过去的已经过去，且一去不返，而聪明人总是努力着眼于现在和将来的事情，所以对过去geng3geng3yu2huai2着无非是在捉弄自己罢了。	That which is past is gone, and irrevocable; and wise men have enough to do, with things present and to come; therefore they do but trifle with themselves, that labor in past matters.
管教	他终於起来反抗那种严厉guan3jiao4他的方式.	He finally rebelled against his strict upbringing.
顺道	他每次外出都会shun4dao4去那家书店待一会儿。	He never goes out but he drops in at that bookstore.
厂商	制造chang3shang1的名称在盘子背面.	The manufacturer's name is on the bottom of the plate.
不可避免	双方随後bu4ke3 bi4mian3地争吵起来。	Inevitably, a quarrel followed between the two sides.
牙签	我父亲喜欢在饭后用ya2qian1。	My father likes to use toothpick after meals.
窥视	有人在灌木丛里kui1shi4动静.	Somebody'slurking in the bushes.
外露	汤姆没有工作，身无分文，不得不在野wai4lu4宿了几个月。	Jobless and penniless, Tom had to sleep rough in the fields for several months.
飞速	那车在高速公路上fei1su4行驶。	The car is whizzing along the motorway.
奖章	jiang3zhang1和奖牌上的人像系低浮雕。	In medals and medallions the figures are in low relief.
迈向	政府的通告已视为mai4xiang4解决罢工问题的一步。	The government's announcement is seen as a move towards settling the strike.
发病	聚会进行到一半，我太太fa1bing4了，我们只好赶紧离开。	Halfway through the party my wife become ill and we have to leave in short order.
使用者	超文本一种计算机的文本查寻系统，此系统能够给shi3yong4zhe3提供与某一特定文本相关的信息	A computer-based text retrieval system that enables the user to provide access to or gain information related to a particular text.
满面	满是尘土的路弄得行人也man3mian4尘土了。	The dusty road made the travelers dusty too.
山坡	农场位于shan1po1上。	The farm sits on the side of the hill.
探险家	克里斯托弗·哥伦布是伟大的tan4xian3jia1。	Christopher Columbus was one of the great explorers.
晚期	准平原一种因wan3qi1侵蚀作用而形成的近似平坦的地面	A nearly flat land surface representing an advanced stage of erosion.
腔调	基蒂对我们抚育孩子的方式一向吹毛求疵，但是她当了母亲之后，就开始改变她的qiang1diao4了。	Kitty used to be very critical of the way we raised our children, but when she became a mother herself she began to change her tune.
围裙	我的wei2qun2太脏了，我不得不洗它。	My apron is so dirty that I have to wash it.
拼凑	她将放在冰箱里的一些残余食物pin1cou4成一餐饭。	He made a meal of the odds and ends that were left in the refrigerator.
奔赴	不要轻率地ben1fu4险境，做任何决定之前都要认真想想。	Don't rush headlong into danger; think it through carefully before you make any decisions.
壮大	随着时间的推移，社会主义的新生事物必然会不断zhuang4da4。	The socialist new things go invariably from strength to strength as time goes by.
书名	这本新shu1ming2叫《爱情故事》。	The new book is entitled Love Story.
相称	与你的财力xiang1chen4的价格	Prices to fit your pocketbook.
胃病	大夫治好了他的wei4bing4。	The doctor cured him of his stomach trouble.
节俭	她妈妈是一个jie2jian3的主妇。	Her mother is a thrifty housewife.
惟有	wei2you3疯狗与英国人会在中午的烈日之下跑到外头去。	Mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the mid-day sun.
喜气洋洋	他们脸上xi3qi4 yang2yang2。	Their faces were alit with happiness.
猎鹰	男孩子们带着lie4ying1出去打猎了。	The boys went hunting with their falcon.
栓	shuan1皮经常用作绝缘材料.	Cork is often used for insulation.
庭院	这家饭店围绕一ting2yuan4而建，辅以泉水和棕榈树。	The hotel is built round a courtyard, with fountain and palm tree.
预知	下届选举谁能获胜无法yu4zhi1。	It's impossible to tell who will win the next election.
医治	医生献身于yi1zhi4病人。	A doctor's life is consecrated to curing sick people.
一道	学生们正在解yi1dao4数学习题。	The students are working on a mathematical problem.
跟上	汤姆必须迈大步才能gen1shang5他的父亲。	Tom has to take long steps to keep pace with his father.
若无其事	她的考试成绩令人失望，但却装出ruo4 wu2 qi2 shi4的样子。	Her exam result was disappointing but she tried to put a brave face on it.
和善	友善的，和蔼的性情体谅的或和蔼的；he2shan4的，柔顺的	Considerate or kindly in disposition; amiable and tender.
深信	我shen1xin4自满情绪是我们各种问题的根源.	It's my conviction (ie I firmly believe) that complacency is at the root of our troubles.
一代	民间音乐是yi1dai4yi1dai4地流传下来的。	Folk music has been passed down from one generation to another.
教区	圣公会jiao4qu1委员圣公会jiao4qu1委员会中推选的两位主要执事之一	One of two elected chief lay officers of the vestry in the Episcopal Church.
斧头	他用fu3tou5砍掉了朽烂的树枝.	He struck off the rotten branches with an axe.
赛程	那两个赛跑选手竞争激烈－－在sai4cheng2中一直不相上下。	The two runners contested the race closely it was nip and tuck all the way.
宽度	较大的，全面的比平均范围、kuan1du4或容量大的；广泛的	Of greater than average scope, breadth, or capacity; comprehensive.
乡间	我们梦想在xiang1jian1买一所小别墅。	We dreamed of buying a little cottage in the country.
鱼类	因为污染严重，许多美丽的yu2lei4正在面临绝种。	Many beautiful fish are fast disappearing because of the severe pollution.
芳香	新犁过的土地散发着fang1xiang1。	The newly ploughed fields smelt sweet.
珠子	那顶帽子上饰有彩色zhu1zi5。	The hat was decorated with colored beads.
伏击	fu2ji1从隐蔽地点进行的突然袭击	A sudden attack made from a concealed position.
邮寄	请把我的名字加入你们的you2ji4名单中.	Please add my name to your mailing list.
扣押	自立摆脱了被奴役、kou4ya1或压迫的人的自由	Liberty of the person from slavery, detention, or oppression.
带头	他就是那个dai4tou2的学生。	He is the student who begins the dance.
挨打	他揍了你我毫不同情——是你先打他的，你ai2da3活该。	I'm not sorry he hit you- it serves you fight for starting the fight!
重金属	铅是zhong4jin1shu3.	Lead is a heavy metal.
法制	过去这些年来，用蒸馏fa3zhi4取淡水成本一直很高。	In the past, obtaining fresh water by distillation has always been too expensive.
逼近	敌人从四面八方（向我们）bi1jin4.	The enemy is closing in (on us).
雪白	满地是苹果树上飘落下来的花瓣，地上一片xue3bai2。	The ground was as white as snow with petals that had drifted down from the apple trees.
冲破	敌人chong1po4了我们的防御工事。	The enemy brushed aside our defences.
肿胀	她的手指zhong3zhang4是手指内有异物引起的。	The swelling on her finger was caused by a foreign body in it.
依恋	我yi1lian4故乡的一草一木。	I am attached to every tree and bush in my hometown.
抹去	我们必须mo3qu4对那次失败的记忆。	We have to extinguish the memory of the defeat.
转交	写给他的信件由律师zhuan3jiao1.	Write to him care of his solicitor.
断电	你（如果）不付款，他们就要duan4dian4。	Fail to pay and they'll cut off the electricity.
反叛	那些初期的fan3pan4活动只不过是大规模革命行动的演习。	The earlier revolts had just been dress rehearsals for full-scale revolution.
元气	他使公司恢复yuan2qi4活动的意见如同一股新鲜空气，令人耳目一新。	His ideas about revitalizing the company's activities are like a breath of fresh air.
违章	每当谈到我开车wei2zhang1判罪问题时，我妻子忍不住要以此事当面责备我。	Every time the subject of my motoring conviction comes up my wife can't help throwing it in my face.
婆家	他的妻子琼是一个健壮、浅薄的女人，也是孩子们随和的母亲。当她一听说自己高贵的地位时，便立刻想入非非，暗自打算为她的年轻漂亮的女儿找一个显赫、门当户对的po2jia5。	And no sooner had Joan, his handsome, shallow-minded wife, the easy-going mother of his many children, heard of her exalted estate than her romantic soul began secretly to devise a brilliant and fitting alliance for her beautiful young daughter.
姻缘	衷心祝愿鸿运高照，美满yin1yuan2，天长地久。	May this day be start of long happy prosperous life for you both.
水壶	这个shui3hu2上的开关按下时卡不住了。	The switch on the kettle won't stay down.
北面	他的家乡在北回归线的bei3mian4。	His hometown is located in the north to the tropic of cancer.
属性	shu3xing4，特性符合一种大体模式或属于特定的组或类的倾向	A tendency to conform to a general pattern or belong to a particular group or category.
简易	我有个jian3yi4的方法。	I have a simple and easy method.
照射	警察用探照灯zhao4she4这所房子.	The police shone a searchlight on the house.
库存	该书有ku4cun2[已脱销].	The book is in/out of stock.
遍体鳞伤	他bian4ti3 lin2shang1。	He was black and blue all over.
集市	下一次ji2shi4是15号.	The next market is on the 15th.
成像	一次cheng2xiang4相机的问题在于没有底片，而其相片在数年内就会明显褪色。	The problem about the instant camera is the lack of negative, and their print can fade considerably within a few years.
同等	本合同两种文本tong2deng3有效。	Both texts of the contract are equally valid.
猜疑	他cai1yi2管道里什麽地方漏了.	He suspected that a leak was present somewhere along the pipe.
找茬	你别zhao3cha2儿闹事, 要不然我就叫警察了!	Don't give me any aggro or I'll call the police!
法令	这样严竣的fa3ling4不易实施.	Such a strict law is not easily enforceable.
写照	书中女主人翁是作者的真实xie3zhao4。	The heroine is the spitting image of the author.
减去	jian3qu4食物与能源的费用以后——这两项每月可能大幅变动——成品制造价格指数仍以略快的速度攀升百分零点四，相形之下，四月份仅上升零点二。	After subtracting food and energy costs, which can vary widely each month, the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods still rose at a moderately fast clip of four-tenths of1 percent, compared with a two-tenth rises in April.
花卉	这银花瓶上刻有hua1hui4浮雕图案。	The silver vase is embossed with a design of flower.
火警	huo3jing3警报响时全体人员应到楼外集合.	If the fire-alarm goes, staff should assemble outside the building.
苦闷	生理伤残会引起心理ku3men4.	Physical disability causes mental anguish.
解放军	不久，jie3fang4jun1就把他们歼灭了。	Soon the Liberation Army knocked them out.
原油	中国是一个yuan2you2丰富的国家。	China is a country rich in crude oil.
击落	我军高射炮ji1luo4五架敌军轰炸机.	Our anti-aircraft guns accounted for five enemy bombers.
击打	那一ji1da3得他失去了知觉.	The blow caused him to lose consciousness.
电量	用dian4liang4最大的时候是在黄昏时.	Demand for electricity peaks in the early evening.
各式各样	他们穿着ge4shi4-ge4yang4的旧衣服。	They are wearing a motley collection of old clothes.
合金	黄铜是铜和锌的he2jin1。	Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc.
弹簧	tan2huang2铗用来调整或关闭柔软管道的夹子，尤指实验室设备	A clamp used to regulate or close a flexible tube, especially in laboratory apparatus.
懊恼	他对自己的愚蠢行为而ao4nao3。	He is repentant of his folly.
顶部	後面的门是在ding3bu4铰接上的, 以便可以向上开.	The rear door hinges/is hinged at the top so that it opens upwards.
晚礼服	她穿着一件黑色丝质wan3li3fu2。	She wore a black silk evening gown.
行贿	xing2hui4，受贿提供、给予或取得贿赂的行为或实践	The act or practice of offering, giving, or taking a bribe.
钢笔	这是谁的gang1bi3？	Whose pen is this?
小于	治安官管辖权和管辖范围都xiao3yu2县治安官的治安官，有权送达传票及逮捕（搜查）令并可以施行逮捕	A peace officer with less authority and smaller jurisdiction than a sheriff, empowered to serve writs and warrants and make arrests.
同类	只应在tong2lei4事物中作比较.	You should only compare like with like.
云彩	小云块，碎云小yun2cai5或与之相象的某物	A small cloud or something resembling one.
浴盆	折叠式婴儿yu4pen2一种商标名，用于婴儿的轻便洗澡用具	A trademark used for portable bathing devices for infants.
移交	将军向胜利者办理了yi2jiao1手续。	The general handed over to the conqueror.
萨达姆	猜测Sa4da2mu3心里如何想法是毫无意义的。不论他是做给伊斯兰激进分子看，还是趁最后一个机会找布什麻烦，他与美国和全世界对抗，不久就成为克林顿先生的问题。	It's pointless to try to read Saddam Hussein's mind. Whether he is playing to Islamic radicals or simply taking a final poke at George Bush, his confrontation with America and the world will soon be one more problem for Mr.Clinton.
比试	年轻的军官一心取胜，他并不害怕与自己的将军bi3shi5一下。	He was so vain and reckless that he would break a lance or two with his general.
连累	她拒绝向警方作陈述以免受lian2lei3.	She refused to make a statement to the police in case she incriminated herself.
郊外	月光照耀着jiao1wai4。	The moon kindled the countryside.
装有	这包应zhuang1you3十个螺丝钉, 可是短了两个.	This packet is supposed to contain ten screws, but it's two short.
凉爽	在阴凉处休息会使你liang2shuang3。	A rest in the shade will cool you down.
总数	他负债zong3shu4超过200英镑.	He has debts totalling more than 200.
酿酒	大浅桶主要供niang4jiu3商用的一种浅的盆或缸	A shallow vat or tub used chiefly by brewers.
羁绊	我们都摆脱不了往事的ji1ban4。	We are all prisoners of our past.
变更	改变了的已经被更改或bian4geng1了的	Having been modified or altered.
打的	性虐待狂为寻求性满足而打别人或被别人da3di2人	One who seeks sexual gratification in beating or being beaten by another person.
炎症	动脉内膜炎动脉内层膜的yan2zheng4	Inflammation of the inner lining of an artery.
分发	救济人员在（向生还者）fen1fa1紧急配给品.	Relief workers were handing out emergency rations (to the survivors).
兴起	在这个工业地区xing1qi3一座新城市。	A new city has grown up in this industrial district.
摆动	投球时在bai3dong4之前举起球棒	Cocked the bat before swinging at the pitch.
危急	时刻尤指关键时刻，wei1ji2关头	A point in time, especially a critical point.
面团	mian4tuan2在冷空气中慢慢收缩了.	The dough shrank slowly in the cold air.
高估	工会在目前纠纷中gao1gu1自己实力有失败之虞.	The union is in danger of overplaying its hand in the current dispute.
硫磺	liu2huang2是炸药的一种组成成分。	Brimstone is a component part of explosive.
禁区	两帮少年无赖之间的持续暴动力行为，使得那个宅区的大部分成了jin4qu1。	The continuing violence between rival gangs of youths has made a large part of the housing estate a no-go area.
真面目	一刹那间，他慈善的假面扔掉，露出了他的zhen1mian4mu4。	For a moment his mask of benevolence fell and the real man was revealed.
盲	爱情是mang2目的。	Love is blind.
回音	hui2yin1测深仪一种声音测深仪的商标	A trademark used for a sonic depth finder.
胜地	马尔盖特英国东南部一自治市，位于伦敦的东部。是一个著名的海滨度假sheng4di4，轻工业也较发达。人口121，900	A municipal borough of southeast England east of London. A popular seaside resort, it also has light industries. Population, 121,900.
复印件	我比较了fu4yin4jian4和原件，但是差别不是很大。	I compared the copy with the original, but there was not much difference.
生活费	上诉人要求对她sheng1huo2fei4的命令的条件进行变更。	The petitioner ask for a variation in her maintenance order.
一并	他已经把填好的表格连同你的汇款yi1bing4寄回了。	He has returned the completed form with your remittance.
药膏	这是治疗烧伤和烫伤的yao4gao1。	This is an ointment for burns and scalds.
假牙	牙医给我镶了颗jia3ya2。	I was fitted an artificial tooth by the dentist.
迎风	五星红旗ying2feng1飘扬。	The five-star red flag is fluttering in the wind.
手帕	他用shou3pa4捂著鼻子.	He pressed a handkerchief to his nose.
引入	把水yin3ru4一系列灌溉渠中.	Water is channelled through a series of irrigation canals.
野猪	他被一头ye3zhu1袭击。	He was attacked by a wild boar.
缅甸	印度支那半岛东南亚的一个半岛，包括越南、老挝、柬埔寨、泰国、Mian3dian4和马来西亚的大陆部分。历史上这一片地区曾受印度（尤其是印度教文化）和中国的影响	A peninsula of southeast Asia comprising Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Burma, and the mainland territory of Malaysia. The area was influenced in early times by India(particularly the Hindu culture) and China.
湿度	由于shi1du4高，工作很困难。	It's difficult to work because of the humidity.
卖出	作者从每本mai4chu1的书中可得10%的版税。	The writer gets a 10% royalty on each copy sold of his book.
毁容	那次事故使他hui3rong2，终生无法恢复。	The accident disfigured him for life.
麻醉剂	在ma2zui4ji4的作用下我感到舒服些。	I felt comfortable on narcotic effect.
患难	【谚】huan4nan4识知交。	Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.
无人	厕所现在wu2ren2使用.	The lavatory is vacant.
西餐	我讨厌xi1can1。	I dislike western food.
致以	党向工会大会zhi4yi3亲切的问候。	The party sent its fraternal greetings to the trade union meeting.
选定	她被xuan3ding4在这部影片中扮演女主角。	She was chosen to play the heroine in this film.
青葱	春天的时候，乡村一片qing1cong1碧绿。	The country is very green in spring.
岗	在环形防线上已布置了几处gang3哨.	Guards had been posted at several points around the perimeter.
鸟类	很多niao3lei4都以虫子为食。	Many birds eat worms.
图表	我得修改tu2biao3. 我出了点儿错.	I'll have to alter the diagram. I've made a mistake.
多利	倘若我们进行干预，那可能弊Duo1li4少。	If we interfere, it may do more harm than good.
荒地	那片田地又变成了huang1di4。	The fields have reverted to moorland.
刺绣	再来一轴线我就可以完成这幅ci4xiu4了。	I need one more spool of thread before finishing the embroidery.
大怒	国王勃然da4nu4。	The king went wroth.
讲课	听我jiang3ke4的人已大大减少了.	Attendance at my lectures has fallen off considerably.
链条	脱轨器，转撤器通过在不同大小的扣链齿轮间移动lian4tiao2而转换自行车齿轮（换档）的装置	A device for shifting gears on a bicycle by moving the chain between sprocket wheels of different sizes.
拖拉机	这台tuo1la1ji1拉力大。	The tractor pulls well.
颗粒	谷粒禾谷类作物的一个ke1li4	A single grain of a cereal plant.
蒲公英	我们把pu2gong1ying1看作希望的象征。	We regard dandelion as an emblem of hope.
唤起	新生的婴儿huan4qi3了她女性的特性.	Newborn babies bring out the woman in her.
字面	成语通常不能照zi4mian4译成另一种语言。	Idioms usually cannot be translated literally in another language.
平局	比分屡次出现ping2ju2。	The score was tied several times.
放电	电晕在电晕fang4dian4中在高压电极出现的一种微弱光辉，常伴随有朝向低压电极的电流	A faint glow enveloping the high-field electrode in a corona discharge, often accompanied by streamers directed toward the low-field electrode.
百般	我父亲总是对我做事的方式bai3ban1挑剔。	My father is always finding fault with the way I do things.
牛顿	他在写niu2dun4的传记.	He's writing a life of Newton.
退款	向公司索取tui4kuan3手续很复杂。	Obtaining a refund from the company is a complicated procedure.
舞池	他在wu3chi2里跺著舞步, 样子很可笑.	He looked funny stomping round the dance floor.
贪吃	那个tan1chi1的小男孩把宴会上所有的糖果都吃光了。	The greedy little boy ate all the candy at the party.
叙旧	在北京，她和老朋友米勒太太重xu4jiu4日友情。	In Beijing, she had brightened the chain with her old friend Mrs Miller
高呼	于是，村办学校继续办下去，至少暂时能这样，让我们为现在的职员gao1hu1万岁！	So the village school stays open, for the time being at least, and long live our present incumbent.
分队	国旗挂于船只或飞机上的国旗，常带有部队fen1dui4或部队单位的特殊识别标记	A national flag displayed on ships and aircraft, often with the special insignia of a branch or unit of the armed forces.
重申	老师chong2shen1了那条规则。	The teacher reiterates that rule.
里程	li3cheng2碑，li3cheng2标路边所设立的石制标志，以英里指示从给定的一点到该路标的距离	A stone marker set up on a roadside to indicate the distance in miles from a given point.
杂物	工人们清理（za2wu4）後就走了.	The workmen cleaned up (the mess) before they left.
原子	自从yuan2zi3动力问世以后，工业发生了巨大的变化。	Since the advent of atomic power, there have been great changes in industry.
纱	薄衫一种柔软而轻薄的织物、sha1或衣服	Any of various soft, light fabrics, yarns, or garments.
华侨	Hua2qiao2像孤儿的那种日子已经一去不复返了。	The days when the overseas Chinese were like orphans are gone forever.
领队	ling3dui4告诫我们在大赛之前不要太激动.	The manager warned us not to get too keyed up before the big match.
联合会	他是大学教师lian2he2hui4的一名成员。	He is a member of the Association of University Teachers.
捉摸	据说由于原材料市场上升且zhuo1mo1不定，制革商们不愿报出实盘。	The tanner is said to be reluctant to quote firm price because of a rising and uncertain raw material market.
病史	诊断通过评价病人的bing4shi3、体检情况和阅读试验数据的方式对人体机能进行检验或对人体引起病痛的原因进行鉴别的行为或过程	The act or process of identifying or determining the nature and cause of a disease or injury through evaluation of patient history, examination, and review of laboratory data.
走失	警方搜遍这个地区寻找这个zou3shi1的孩子。	The police scoured the area looking for the lost child.
失窃	仓库中的shi1qie4使利润损失了百分之二.	Pilferage in the warehouse reduces profitability by about two per cent.
喷射	火山灰火山爆发pen1she4出来的粉末状颗粒物质	Pulverized particulate matter ejected by volcanic eruption.
半数	有ban4shu4卫戍部队在执勤.	Half the garrison is/are on duty.
大纲	他用两小时左右的时间草草拟出了故事的da4gang1。	He batted out an outline of a story in about two hours.
发电	物理学家们正在研究对环境危害少的fa1dian4新方法，与此同时，许多fa1dian4厂也在实现现代化以减少污染物质的释放量。	Physicists are studying new ways of generating electricity with less damage to the environment. In the meantime, many power plants are being modernized to give off less polluting material.
打错	她无意中da3cuo4了电话.	She inadvertently telephoned the wrong person.
招架	她聪明机智, 使人难以zhao1jia4.	She uses wit with deadly effect.
防盗	fang2dao4警报器一响，警卫就放出了警犬。	The guard loosed the dogs when the burglar alarm went off.
懊悔	他按捺不住，大发脾气；过后又感到ao4hui3。	His temper ran away with him and later he regretted what he did.
锌	黄铜是铜和xin1的合金。	Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc.
转折点	她的印度之行成了她一生的zhuan3zhe2dian3。	Her visit to India proved to be a watershed in her life.
部下	副排长命令bu4xia4在营房广场集合。	Platoon sergeants fell their men in on the barrack square.
镖	外形似biao1的事物物体在形状、使用或效果上像一细长带尖的投掷物的物体	An object likened to a slender, pointed missile either in shape, use, or effect.
便士	政府对每包香烟额外提价十bian4shi4.	The Government has clapped an extra ten pence on a packet of cigarettes.
赏识	玛丽因工作得不到shang3shi2而灰心丧气.	Mary was frustrated by the lack of appreciation shown of her work.
货色	弟兄两个我谁也不相信，他们都是一路huo4se4。	I won't trust either of the two brothers; they are tarred with the same brush.
漫	树叶使光线man4射。	The light was diffused by the leaves.
十字路口	我们的商行正处在shi2zi4 lu4kou3，倘若此番交易不能成功，我们将会破产。	Our business is at the crossing, if this deal does not succeed, we shall be bankrupt.
土著	入侵者打败了tu3zhu4居民.	The invaders prevailed over the native population.
入场券	她想起忘记带ru4chang3quan4，顿时惊慌起来。	She got into a panic when she thought she'd forgotten the tickets.
温顺	他过去毫不留情地欺侮他的秘书，但是如被逼太甚，最wen1shun4者也会反抗的，结果有一天她不辞而别了。	He used to bully his secretary without mercy, but even a worm will turn and one day she walked out and left her job without even saying goodbye.
协作	社会公益服务机构和当地医生应该加强xie2zuo4。	There should be a lot more interaction between the social services and local doctors.
禁令	法院已经发布了禁止他们罢工一个月的jin4ling4。	The court has issued an injunction forbidding them to strike for a month.
依法	他yi1fa3应得的遗产被人骗走了.	He was cheated (out) of his rightful inheritance.
日程表	看ri4cheng2biao3就使我头昏脑胀。	Look at my schedule make my head spin.
糊	把面粉和牛奶搅成很稠的hu1.	Stir the flour and milk to a stiff paste.
再现	这幅画的照片绝妙地zai4xian4了原作的色彩。	The photograph of the painting reproduces the colors of the original extremely well.
骨架	这片建筑还只是仅有主梁的gu3jia4.	The block is still just a skeleton of girders.
纸张	那律师装上笔尖；摊开zhi3zhang1，准备缮写。	The lawyer nib his pen, spread out his paper, and prepared to write.
发酵	酒石形成于酒的fa1jiao4桶的内侧。	Tartar forms on the inside of a cask in which wine is fermented.
晃荡	这栋房子周围有几个小男孩在huang4dang4。	There are several young boys loitering around the building.
后方	于是他悄悄绕到他们hou4fang1，提高了飞行高度。	So he stole to their rear and flew at a higher altitude.
消防队	xiao1fang2dui4到达时, 整座建筑物正在熊熊燃烧著.	When the firemen arrived the whole building was blazing.
炎	眼yan2眼睛的发yan2	Inflammation of the eye.
共有	在这张地图上公路与铁路（彼此）相交gong4you3多少次?	How many times do the road and railway intersect (with one another) on this map?
未遂	船员夺船wei4sui4, 均以叛乱罪被枪决.	The crew tried to seize control of the ship, and were shot for mutiny.
消散	雾xiao1san4後是个晴天.	It was a fine day once the mist had cleared.
阻力	他在执行职务中遇到许多zu3li4.	In the prosecution of his duties he had met with a good deal of resistance.
高山	在所有gao1shan1当中，玉山为最高。	Of all the high mountains, Mt. Jade is the highest.
定居	他东奔西走了好久才ding4ju1下来。	He kicked about a great deal before settling down.
肿块	外科医生切除了她乳房的zhong3kuai4.	The surgeon excised the lump from her breast.
呼喊	受惊的孩子们hu1han3著找妈妈。	Frightened children were calling for their mothers.
领子	他抓住我的ling3zi5把我拉倒他面前。	He grabbed my collar and pulled me towards him.
量子	引力微子一种假想粒子，被假定为引力相互作用的liang4zi3，并被推测为具有无限长寿命、零电荷和零静止质量	A hypothetical particle postulated to be the quantum of gravitational interaction and presumed to have an indefinitely long lifetime, zero electric charge, and zero rest mass.
压倒	他背上的重负似乎要把他ya1dao3在地。	The burden on his back seemed to be crushing him to the earth.
紧跟	jin3gen1在他身後出现了一个带角的分趾蹄动物	Close behind him appear an animal with horn and cleave hooves.
纸牌	老年人或坐着谈话或玩zhi3pai2或干脆观看“活动区”的热闹场面。	The old people sit talking or play cards, or simply watch the sound and fury of the""activity area.""
售票员	她是一名公共汽车shou4piao4yuan2。	She is a bus conductor.
沾满	草上zhan1man3了露珠.	The grass was sprinkled with dew.
上边	这冰的厚度能禁得住在shang4bian5滑冰吗?	Is the ice thick enough for skating?
紧凑	这些拖拉机均具有结构jin3cou4，操纵简便，转向灵活，耗油省等特点。	The tractors are featured by compact construction, convenient operation, high maneuverability and low fuel consumption.
上交	考卷答完後请shang4jiao1（给老师）.	Please give your examination papers in (to the teacher) when you've finished.
求职者	对于qiu2zhi2zhe3，我们优先考虑有一定经验的人。	In considering people for jobs, we give preference to those with some experience.
葬	莎士比亚zang4於何处?	Where is Shakespeare buried?
奎	不受以往辩论形式的拘束，副总统kui2尔和民主党的戈尔穷追不舍互相猛烈攻击。结果双方对抗始终活泼生动，常有战斗意味，有进则风度欠佳。	Freed from the constraints of the traditional debate format, Vice President Quayle and Democrat Al Gore went after each other with a vengeance, creating a confrontation that was always lively, often combative, occasionally mean-spirited.
华氏	今天气温是Hua2shi4七十度。	The temperature today is seventy degrees Fahrenheit.
超载	就模拟输入而言，使模数转换器不能区别其变化的超范围的绝对电压值。chao1zai4值对于正输入和负输入可能不同。	For analog inputs, any absolute voltage value above which the analog-to- digital converter cannot distinguish a change. The overload value can be different for plus and minus inputs.
出气	我瞧不起那些工作不顺心就拿家里人chu1qi4 的男人。	I look down on man who vents his anger on his family after having a bad day at work.
磨损	铸造在硬币上的文字已经mo2sun3.	The inscription on the coin had worn away.
益处	她的劝告大有yi4chu5.	Her advice was a great help.
欣然	他xin1ran2接受了我的报价。	He pounced on my offer.
长颈鹿	chang2jing3lu4的脖子很长.	Giraffes have long necks.
连夜	那记者虽然有点累，但他那天晚上却lian2ye4写文章。	The journalist chucked out ink throughout that night although he was a bit tired.
财物	警察在小偷的家里发现了一些被盗的cai2wu4。	The police found some stolen property in the thief's house.
磁性	通电时线圈就会有ci2xing4。	The loop becomes magnetic when the current is switched on.
四季	一年有几个季节？ 一年有si4ji4。	How many seasons are there in a year? There are four seasons in a year.
回升	一旦价格hui2sheng1，询盘将恢复活跃。	As soon as the price picks up, enquiries will revive.
继承人	他的长寿令他的ji4cheng2ren2们不快	His longevity vexed his heirs.
投放	她所有的钱都tou2fang4到股票里去了。	She's got all her money in stocks and shares.
篱笆	【谚】li2ba5有眼，墙壁长耳。	Hedges have eyes and walls have ears.
暗淡	光线an4dan4有助於人们松弛精神.	Subtle lighting helps people relax.
镜片	眼镜，护目镜镶在轻型框架中，用于纠正视力或保护眼睛的一对jing4pian4	A pair of lenses mounted in a light frame, used to correct faulty vision or protect the eyes.
出人头地	企业家要具备什麽素质才能chu1 ren2 tou2 di4?	What qualities go to make a successful businessman?
品格	傲慢是他pin3ge2上的最大缺陷.	Pride was the greatest flaw in his personality.
多伦多	埃阿斯加拿大安大略省东南部的一城镇，位于Duo1lun2duo1东北部伊利湖上。是制造业中心。人口25，475	A town of southeast Ontario, Canada, on Lake Erie northeast of Toronto. It is a manufacturing center. Population, 25,475.
怪癖	怪人一个奇特或guai4pi3的人；怪人	A peculiar or eccentric person; a character.
歧途	这种思想只能把世人引入qi2tu2。	Such ideas will only lead the world's people astray.
支离破碎	巨浪将那艘失事的船只冲击得zhi1li2-po4sui4.	The huge waves battered the wrecked ship to pieces.
刷子	请将漆罐和shua1zi5递给我，我要在天花板上再刷一层。	Please pass up the paint pot and brush; I will put another coat on the ceiling.
巡回演出	流行乐团迷跟随摇滚乐队xun2hui2 yan3chu1的迷恋者，尤指年轻女性	A fan, especially a young woman, who follows a rock group around on tours.
着眼	她透过雾眯zhuo2yan3看，想找出正确的路。	She peers through the mist, trying to find the right path.
农庄	每一处nong2zhuang1都有大批购买来的和配给的仆人从事开垦荒地。	For its rough cultivation each estate had a multitude of hand—of purchased and assigned servants.
水源	shui3yuan2污染已经达到危及居民健康的程度。	Pollution of the water supply reached a level pernicious to the health of the population.
中指	自我在精神分析学zhong1zhi3有意识的最直接地控制思想和行为，与外部世界联系也最多的那部分自我	In psychoanalysis, the division of the psyche that is conscious, most immediately controls thought and behavior, and is most in touch with external reality.
化工	石油hua4gong1产品现在已占所有化学制品的四分之一，十年后预计这个数目还要加倍。	Petrochemicals today account for one fourth of all the chemicals made, in ten years this amount is expected to double.
招生	一些人相信，高等教育的扩大zhao1sheng1已经降低了大学的标准。	Some believe that the extension for higher education has leveled down university standards.
洗刷	锅炉内壁要xi3shua1一下，除去钙质沉淀物。	The boilers will have to be scoured out to remove the calcium deposits.
林子	一声吼叫，呼地从lin2zi5里冲出一只老虎来。	Following the roar, out rushed a tiger among the bushes.
研制	那两个公司已合作yan2zhi4新型赛车.	The two companies have teamed up to develop a new racing car.
运费	yun4fei4中不包括火车站至轮船码头之间的运输费用。	Fares do not include conveyance between railway stations and steamer piers.
信条	xin4tiao2个人、群体或一机构的xin4tiao2或原则的总和	The sum of the beliefs or principles of a person, a group, or an institution.
邮报	工会与资方的最后谈判行将终结，双方努力争取在限期前达成协议。否则，发行187年的《纽约you2bao4》将被迫永远停刊。	Last-ditch talks headed down to the wire as union and management raced a deadline which could force the New York Post to close down today for good after187 year.
捻	把纤维nian3成线束的人	One that twists fibers into thread.
池子	她躺在chi2zi5边上，用手指玩水。	She lay at the side of the pool and paddled in the water with her fingers.
官僚	很难弄清楚他们那套guan1liao2体制全部细微的层次分别。	It was hard to understand all the minute gradations of their bureaucracy.
享福	你们在外面xiang3fu2，我却一直在这里辛辛苦苦守着火热的炉灶。可我又得到了什么报答呢？	Here I've been slaving over a hot cooker while you have been out enjoying yourselves, and what rewards do I get?
不曾	我希望你bu4ceng2因为我好久不给你写信而感到担心。	I hope you were never put out by my long silence.
纯属	政府声称对失业表示关注chun2shu3做做姿态。	The government's claim to be concerned about unemployment is sheer hypocrisy.
国歌	市乐队以guo2ge1开始他们的演奏。	The town band led off by playing the national anthem.
泉水	水源，quan2shui3从地下流出的地方；泉或喷泉	A place where water issues from the earth; a spring or fountain.
疗效	从眼前来看，这药可能liao2xiao4不是很大。	In the short term, the medicine may not be very effective.
佣人	耶稣对yong1ren2说：“往缸里倒满水。”他们便把缸灌满了水。	Jesus said to the servants,""Fill the jars with water"", and they filled them to the brim.
贯穿	她的论文的主题是由历史观点guan4chuan1起来的.	The historical aspect formed the main theme of her essay.
团长	那位穿军装的人恐怕就是tuan2zhang3了。	The man in the army uniform will be the regiment commander.
天色	风雨欲来, tian1se4黑暗.	The sky darkened as the storm approached.
打印机	你可以使用联机da3yin4ji1把数据打印出来。	You may use an online printer to print out the data.
看台	他把球踢到kan4tai2上了。	He kicked the ball to the stand.
安放	恐怖分子在邮局an1fang4了一枚炸弹。	The terrorists planted a bomb in the post office.
顶嘴	那个新来的学生粗鲁地跟老师ding3zui3, 一开始就把关系搞僵了.	The new student started off on the wrong foot with the teacher by answering back rudely.
凝望	她抬起头来，ning2wang4着十二月份阴沉沉的天空。	She looked up staring at the sombre December sky.
足球队	他们大声地为自己的zu2qiu2dui4喊加油。	They cheered loudly for their football team.
气管	挡板，调节风门一种可调节的薄片，如在熔炉或火炉的通qi4guan3中的，用来控制气流	An adjustable plate, as in the flue of a furnace or stove, for controlling the draft.
安眠	忏悔之后他觉得好过一点，并且能an1mian2了。	After confession he feels a little better and can sleep at ease.
叛乱	pan4luan4者被迫投降.	The rebels were forced to give in.
竖起	他shu4qi3大衣领子, 匆匆冒雨出去了.	He turned up the collar of his coat and hurried out into the rain.
止痛	他在手上涂了些药膏来zhi3tong4。	He smeared some balm on his hand to soothe the pain.
淋巴	我的lin2ba1发炎了。	I've got an inflammation of lymph.
研讨会	老教授主持了一次理论物理学家的yan2tao3hui4。	The old professor had presided over a seminar for theoretical physicists.
背弃	贪赃枉法的；腐败的能够为了金钱bei4qi4荣誉、责任或顾虑的；易腐化堕落的	Capable of betraying honor, duty, or scruples for a price; corruptible.
傀儡	革命者计划推翻kui3lei3政府。	The revolutionist planned to overturn this puppet regime.
柄	我用了一bing3长bing3汤杓。	I use a soup ladle.
流入	水从冷凝器流出，liu2ru4灰浆室。	Water flows from the condenser to the ash room.
追随者	他要求zhui1sui2zhe3对他绝对服从.	He demands unquestioning obedience from his followers.
水槽	檐槽把雨水从房顶排走的shui3cao2，装在屋檐边或檐下	A trough fixed under or along the eaves for draining rainwater from a roof.
通红	他发烧满脸tong1hong2.	Fever flushed his cheeks.
落日	luo4ri4使景色更美。	The setting sun glorified the scene.
发芽	白菜一星期内就fa1ya2了。	The cabbage germinated within a week.
市政	shi4zheng4当局要拆毁这些建筑物以让出地方修筑新公路。	The city will tear down these buildings to make room for the new highway.
幌子	该珠宝公司不过是进行非法的钻石交易的huang3zi5。	The jewellery firm is just a front for their illegal trade in diamonds.
狂风	昨天的这个时候正刮着kuang2feng1。	It was blowing gales of hurricane this time yesterday.
赠品	无论如何，天堂是没有婚礼zeng4pin3的。	At any rate there will be no wedding presents in heaven.
中期	学年zhong1qi1考试一学年zhong1qi1进行的考试	An examination given in the middle of a school year.
虚荣心	她出于xu1rong2xin1而嫁给了那个富人。	She married the rich man out of vanity.
眼珠	小心点，哈里，你再这样盯着别的女人，她会把你的yan3zhu1抠出来。	Be careful, Harry, she'll scratch your eyes out if you so much as glance at another woman.
首府	温彻斯特区英格兰中南部一自治区，位于伦敦西南。是盎格鲁－撒克逊时期西撒克斯王国的shou3fu3。在诺曼征服（1066年）以后，成为一个吸引了众多宗教学者的重要学术中心。人口32，100	A municipal borough of south-central England southwest of London. The capital of the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Wessex, it was an important center of learning that attracted many religious scholars after the Norman Conquest(1066). Population, 32,100.
憎恶	暂且不要考虑你从直觉上zeng1wu4他这一因素.	Set aside for a moment your instinctive dislike of the man.
办事处	他们正在考虑把ban4shi4chu4搬出伦敦。	They are pondering moving their offices outside London.
结盟	这个国家同意为了共同的安全而与邻国jie2meng2。	The country agreed to confederate with the neighboring country for mutual safety.
招人	我们太忙, 许多工作得zhao1ren2承包.	We're so busy we have to farm out a lot of work.
发笑	她样子寒酸, 客人不禁暗自fa1xiao4.	Her shabby appearance drew sniggers from the guests.
戏弄	猫在xi4nong4那只活老鼠。	The cat is playing with a live mouse.
开走	你未得许可就把汽车kai1zou3是不应该的.	You were wrong to take the car without permission.
半价	这些酒杯ban4jia4出售，因为玉上有瑕疵。	These wine glasses were sold at half price because of blemishes in the jade.
勇猛	他因为在战斗中的yong3meng3被授予一枚奖章。	He was awarded a merit badge for his bravery in the battle.
闲暇	阅读占去了我大部分的xian2xia2时间。	Reading occupies most of my free time.
脑震荡	患者头部受击後患严重nao3zhen4dang4.	The patient is suffering from severe concussion following a blow to the head.
马厩	ma3jiu4里到处都是苍蝇.	The stables swarmed with flies.
开往	渡船於一点钟kai1wang3法国.	The ferry leaves for France at one o'clock.
健壮	这只雄鹿体形jian4zhuang4。	This hart has a strong figure.
彗星	hui4xing1和其他的行星同样是太阳家族的成员。	Comets are just as much members of the sun's family as (are) the other planets.
谜底	他一下子就猜中了mi2di3.	He got the answer to the riddle as quick as a flash.
鱼雷	那条船遭到yu2lei2的攻击。	The ship was attacked by torpedo.
胸脯	xiong1pu2其它哺乳动物的相应器官	A corresponding organ in other mammals.
黑莓	想要点hei1mei2酱吗？	Would you like some blackberry jam?
切碎	我当时正把机密文件qie1sui4。	I was shredding top-secret documents at that time.
轻度	保龄球一种较重的qing1du4削平的大木球，以使球斜进滚动	A large wooden ball weighted or slightly flattened so as to roll with a bias.
旗子	五彩缤纷的qi2zi5在屋顶上飘扬。	Multi-colored flags were flying over the rooftop.
卵子	异卵黄的luan3zi3中卵黄分布不均匀的	Having the yolk unevenly distributed throughout the egg.
纠葛	他不安的神色引发了谣传说他与警方发生了某些jiu1ge2。	His upset looking gave rise to rumors that he had got in trouble with police.
丘	山的支脉一列山或qiu1的横岭	A spur of a mountain range or hills.
高地	噍，那亭子高gao1di4立在空中呢。	Look, the pavilion is high in the sky.
平底	浮舟用于支撑浮桥的船只，可以轻易移动的建造物，如ping2di3船	A floating structure, such as a flat-bottomed boat, that is used to support a bridge.
密友	在晚会上，他和他的mi4you3亲密交谈。	He exchanged intimacies with his bosom friend at the party.
有罪	我们所有人都是you3zui4的。	All of us are sinful.
世界观	胆汁质（暴躁）的哲学家的shi4jie4guan1，要加上一小撮盐方能接受，惟以泻盐为较佳。	A bilious philosopher's opinion of the world can only be accepted with a pinch of salt, of epsom salt by preference.
膀胱	pang2guang1炎泌尿pang2guang1的发炎	Inflammation of the urinary bladder.
克莱	Ke4lai2尔, 那板上的画儿是你的大作吗?	Is that drawing on the board your handiwork, Clare?
无可	wu2ke3否认, 他当时并不知道.	Admittedly, he didn't know that at the time.
岸边	费了半天劲才划到an4bian1.	It was a long pull to the shore.
受害	有人说布什因选举大会开得不好以及竞选方法不佳而shou4hai4。可是即使两者都做得较好，结果也将是一样。我想根本问题也不在于经济。	Some will say Mr. Bush was done in by a bad convention and a bad campaign. But if both had gone better the outcome would have been the same. And I don't think it all came down to the economy, either.
首长	诗章一shou3zhang3诗的主要部分之一	One of the principal divisions of a long poem.
空袭	kong1xi2几乎把这座城镇夷为平地。	The bombing raid practically leveled the town.
输出	石油shu1chu1国家组织冻结石油shu1chu1，价格看涨。	OPEC freezes output, sees prices easing.
判定	被告中有数人被pan4ding4有罪。	Several of the accused were found guilty.
远征军	他是yuan3zheng1jun1的司令/探险队的队长。	He is the commander of the expedition.
啪	他把橡皮筋pa1的一声拉断了.	He stretched the rubber band till it snapped.
围栏	她在那个wei2lan2里养了一匹马。	She keeps a horse in that enclosure.
觉察	你能jue2cha2出他们之间有对立情绪.	You could sense the antagonism between them.
南北	由于南部某些州于十九世纪六十年代脱离美国而导致了nan2-bei3战争。	The secession of some southern states from the USA in the 1860s led to the civil war.
地形	司令员对di4xing2作了仔细研究。	The commander made a detailed study of the terrain.
掉落	她捡起diao4luo4的苹果, 用衣服下摆兜著.	She gathered the fallen apples and carried them in her lap.
拉丁语	学习英语和德语等现代语言比学习La1ding1yu3更为有用。	It's more useful to learn modern languages, such as English and German, than Latin.
颇为	他终於获得了驾驶执照, 这使他po1wei2得意.	He is at last the proud possessor of a driving-licence.
远见	储蓄是有yuan3jian4的.	It's prudent to save.
失利	这场重要战役的shi1li4是我们败局已定的前兆.	Defeat in this important battle was the beginning of the end for us.
诸如	矿渣zhu1ru2砂砾或矿渣等物质，可从中提取金属	Material, such as gravel or slag, from which metal is extracted in mining.
煽动	他shan1dong4其他的男孩子调皮捣蛋。	He stirred the other boys to mischief.
惹恼	他的妈妈被他re3nao3了，狠狠地揍他的屁股。	His mother was so annoyed with him that she swatted his rear end.
名堂	那些男孩一直在花园里点火堆。""""他们又在搞这ming2tang5了，是不是？""	The boys have been lighting fires in the garden."" ""So they're at it again, are they? ""
敬重	这位市议员受到市民的jing4zhong4。	The alderman was respected by the citizens.
关节炎	她患guan1jie2yan2十分痛苦.	She was plagued with arthritis.
船只	救生船去救一艘遇险的chuan2zhi5。	The lifeboat went out to a ship in distress.
强加	她竭力把自己的想法qiang2jia1於全组的人.	She imposed her ideas on the group.
办好	他庄重地保证把事情ban4hao3。	He gave his solemn promise to do better.
渲染	她把旅行的事大大地xuan4ran3（夸张）了一番.	She gave a highly coloured (ie exaggerated) account of her travels.
附带	fu4dai4说一下，约翰下星期要回家。	Incidentally, John's coming home next week.
面纱	大多数穆斯林妇女在公共场所都戴着mian4sha1。	Most Moslem women wear veils in public places.
隐居	小的yin3ju1处所狭小、简陋的住所，比如隐士的山洞或棚屋	A small, humble abode, such as a hermit's cave or hut.
剪掉	有两个镜头被审查员jian3diao4了.	Two scenes were cut by the censor.
成群	cheng2qun2的士兵洗劫了村庄。	Bands of soldiers ravaged the village.
剪子	他用jian3zi5连花带茎都剪下来。	He cut off the flowers at the stalk with a pair of scissors.
用具	开始做饭前，我还得去买些厨房yong4ju4。	I have to buy some kitchen utensils before starting cooking.
信服	这是我所能找到的最令人xin4fu2的证据，以证明我的观点。	This is the most convincing evidence that I can find to prove my point.
脂肪酸	乳脂提供我们活力，以及我们身体上无法产生之zhi1fang2suan1。	Milkfat provides energy and essential fatty acids that our bodies cannot make.
大理石	庄园主宅第是一栋环抱在美丽的花园中的da4li3shi2房子。	The manor is a marble house surrounded by a beautiful garden.
黑发	他的hei1fa4中夹杂着银发。	His black hair was threaded with silver.
迭	空气中有熏衣草和迷die2香花的味道。	There is a lavender scent and rosemary scent in the air.
看管	我认为咱们不在家时不能把孩子都硬塞给你父母kan1guan3。	I don't think we can wish the children on your parents while we're away.
恒心	永恒不变的个人heng2xin1和经常顺从的挂念	Constant personal attention and often obsequious solicitude.
车间	这些都是在这个che1jian1制造的吗？	Are these made in this workshop?
享年	我伯伯威廉上周去世了，他xiang3nian2９０岁奋斗一辈子了。	My Uncle William passed away last week; he was ninety, and game to the end.
主体	切割部分从zhu3ti3上切割下来的部分	A part cut off from a main body.
无影无踪	转眼间他就wu2ying3-wu2zong1了。	He disappeared in a twinkling of an eye.
与世隔绝	他yu3shi4-ge2jue2一个月，力图把功课赶上去。	He shut himself away for a month to catch up on his academic work.
家常菜	你喜欢我的jia1chang2cai4吗？	Did you enjoy my home cooking?
烈士	父亲是lie4shi4的那个女孩学习非常刻苦。	That girl whose father is martyr studies very hard.
轻薄	他这个人有点qing1bo2--别跟他太认真!	He's a bit of a philanderer -- don't take him too seriously!
装甲	我们的步兵和zhuang1jia3兵均比敌军的少.	We have less infantry and armour than the enemy.
碍事	有些小炊具非但没有用处反而ai4shi4。	Some kitchen gadgets are more of a hindrance than a help.
失掉	我们不能冒（shi1diao4全部钱的）风险.	We can't run the risk (of losing all that money).
偏激	她必须与拥护她的那些比较pian1ji1的人保持一定的距离.	She needs to distance herself from some of her more extreme supporters.
存心	他cun2xin1捣乱.	He means (to cause) trouble.
相通	这座山里有许多xiang1tong1的洞穴.	Under the mountain there is a network of caves.
势头	为独立而斗争的shi4tou2日益增长。	The struggle for independence is gaining momentum every day.
中世纪	在zhong1shi4ji4, 哲学与神学是不分的.	In the Middle Ages, philosophy and theology were inextricable.
巴格达	经过特别警告Ba1ge2da2不得在伊拉克任何地方使用毒气和作战飞机（这些警告鼓励了少数民族叛变）以后，当伊拉克继续用作战直升机对付叛军时，布什却半途而废未加制止。	After having pointedly warned Baghdad not to use poison gas or combat aircraft anywhere in Iraq, warnings that had encouraged the rebellion, Mr.Bush pulled up short when Iraq continued to fly combat helicopters against the insurgents.
探视	你曾否想到用你的视觉去tan4shi4一位朋友或认识的人的内在本性？	Does it ever occur to you to use your sight to see into the inner nature of a friend or acquaintance?
税务	shui4wu4法非常复杂，只有专家才能解释清楚。	The tax laws are so complicated that only an expert can provide enlightenment.
牡蛎	那个mu3li4把壳合拢起来。	That oyster closed up its valves.
改过	gai3guo4不嫌迟。	It's never too late to mend.
听懂	要仔细听才能ting1dong3老师讲的课。	Listen carefully so as to follow the teacher.
强有力	对於执行死刑, 赞成与反对的双方都有qiang2you3li4的论据.	There are strong arguments for and against capital punishment.
轻蔑	他对我的建议qing1mie4地一笑。	He gave a scornful laugh at my proposal.
随和	她sui2he5的个性使她能与任何人相处。	Her facile nature adapted itself to any company.
剑桥	＂商务Jian4qiao2英语考试一部分是笔试，一部分是口试。＂	The Cambridge Business Exams are part written, part oral.""
清真寺	信徒们都赶往qing1zhen1si4。	The devout were all hurrying to the mosque.
冰岛	斯堪的那维亚是指丹麦、挪威、瑞典和Bing1dao3。	Scandinavia refers to Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Iceland.
开设	今年香港将为教师kai1she4一家图书馆以提供防止青少年自杀的教学资料。	A library of teaching materials for preventing teenage suicides will open for educators in Hong Kong this year.
粉刷	fen3shua1房间就要把钢琴搬出去。	Painting the room involved moving out the piano.
欣喜若狂	体育爱好者们xin1xi3 ruo4 kuang2地从体育场中蜂涌而出。	The fans poured out of the stadium cheering wildly.
跳水	他站在边上等待tiao4shui3时浑身发抖.	He stood shivering on the brink, waiting to dive in.
无益	忏悔可能对灵魂有好处，但对声誉则有损wu2yi4。	Confession may be good for the soul but they are bad for the reputation.
贫富	缩小pin2-fu4之间的差距是政府面临的主要难题之一.	Reducing the gap between rich and poor is one of the main challenges facing the government.
公墓	他的遗体被运回，埋葬在一个gong1mu4里。	His remains were shipped back and laid away in a cemetery.
王位	他登上wang2wei4时才八岁。	He was only eight when he ascended the throne.
聘请	要pin4qing3到素质好的老师是很困难的。	It's difficult to recruit teachers of quality.
见效	服下的阿司匹林药片很快jian4xiao4了。	The aspirins soon took effect.
狂欢节	娱乐场，游乐场在商品交易会、kuang2huan1jie2、马戏团或展览会所在地提供杂耍表演和其它娱乐活动的地方	The area of a fair, a carnival, a circus, or an exposition where sideshows and other amusements are located.
解冻	冻鸡应彻底jie3dong4後再烹调.	A frozen chicken should be allowed to defrost completely before cooking.
突变	tu1bian4体由tu1bian4而产生的一种新个体、新有机体或者新种	An individual, an organism, or a new genetic character arising or resulting from mutation.
打鼓	孩子睡觉时，不要练习da3gu3。	You mustn't practise drums while the baby is sleeping.
飘落	满地是苹果树上piao1luo4下来的花瓣，地上一片雪白。	The ground was as white as snow with petals that had drifted down from the apple trees.
一见钟情	这二人yi1 jian4 zhong1qing2。	The two fell in love with each other at the first sight.
海面	今天hai3mian4风浪很大.	The sea is quite lively today.
单干	他决定dan1gan4创业.	He decided to go it alone and start his own business.
毛毯	每张床的尾端放有备用mao2tan3.	Spare blankets lay at the foot of each bed.
戏院	这家xi4yuan4只能容纳250人.	The theatre admits only 250 people.
工作量	繁重的gong1zuo4liang4迫使我取消去露营。	The heavy workload forced me to cancel the camping trip.
裁定	法庭cai2ding4那个人犯了侵犯人身罪。	The court determined that the man was guilty of assault.
汉字	那个小男孩第一次会将Han4zi4慢慢地读出来。	That boy can spell out the Chinese for the fast time.
金矿	jin1kuang4区蕴藏大量黄金或jin1kuang4的地区	An area containing abundant deposits of gold or gold ore.
抓获	那个越狱犯躲避警察追捕一个多星期之后，终于在一家小旅馆被zhua1huo4。	After eluding the police for over a week, the escaped prisoner was finally run down in a public house.
通心粉	这里您可以看到两名工人，他们刚刚割好三大马车金黄色的tong1xin1fen3小麦杆。	Here you can see two workers who, between them, have just finished cutting three cart-loads of golden brown macaroni stalks.
浅薄	他的妻子琼是一个健壮、qian3bo2的女人，也是孩子们随和的母亲。当她一听说自己高贵的地位时，便立刻想入非非，暗自打算为她的年轻漂亮的女儿找一个显赫、门当户对的婆家。	And no sooner had Joan, his handsome, shallow-minded wife, the easy-going mother of his many children, heard of her exalted estate than her romantic soul began secretly to devise a brilliant and fitting alliance for her beautiful young daughter.
战车	墙上有一幅武士站在zhan4che1上的画。	There is a picture of a fighter standing on a chariot on the wall.
殆尽	我们的食物储备已消耗dai4jin4.	Our stock of food is greatly depleted.
打探	我应该先审慎da3tan4一下这家公司的底细, 然後您再签字.	I should make a few discreet enquires about the firm before you sign anything.
破旧	这本书po4jiu4了，封面上有墨渍。	The book is worn out and has ink stain on its cover.
伊斯兰	猜测萨达姆心里如何想法是毫无意义的。不论他是做给Yi1si1lan2激进分子看，还是趁最后一个机会找布什麻烦，他与美国和全世界对抗，不久就成为克林顿先生的问题。	It's pointless to try to read Saddam Hussein's mind. Whether he is playing to Islamic radicals or simply taking a final poke at George Bush, his confrontation with America and the world will soon be one more problem for Mr.Clinton.
下乡	今天早上这一行人收拾行李xia4xiang1去了。	The party picked up and started for the countryside this morning.
嬉戏	孩子们在沙滩上xi1xi4真是乐得其所.	The children are really in their element playing on the beach.
怒吼	人群nu4hou3著表示不满.	The crowd howled its displeasure.
正派	伤风败俗的与公认的zheng4pai4的或谨慎的标准有冲突的	Offensive to accepted standards of decency or modesty.
插嘴	我们谈话时她老是cha1zui3.	She kept cutting in on/cutting into our conversation.
车速	在市区线以内che1su4不能超过每小时35英里	Cars cannot exceed35 miles per hour within city limits.
停靠	这个岛难得有船ting2kao4.	The island is seldom, if ever, visited by ships.
代表团	她拒绝接见工会dai4biao3tuan2.	She refused to meet the union delegation.
圆圈	扇形体形状似四分之一yuan2quan1的机器零件或其他机械设备	A machine part or other mechanical device that is shaped like a quarter circle.
鹌鹑	野禽，猎鸟一种野生的猎鸟，如野鸭、野鹅或an1chun2	A wild game bird, such as a duck, goose, or quail.
下定决心	他xia4ding4 jue2xin1争取成功。	He was utterly ruthless in his determination to succeed.
扑克牌	我宁愿约翰打网球而不玩pu1ke4pai2。	I prefer John's playing tennis to his playing cards.
在逃	越狱犯依然zai4tao2.	The escaped prisoner is still at large.
砂糖	你认为sha1tang2可以替代蜂蜜吗？	Can you think sugar will substitute for honey?
遗物	这些早期yi2wu4被认为具有神奇的力量.	The relics are credited with miraculous powers.
别针	昨天我给丈夫买了一支领带bie2zhen1。	I bought a tie pin for my husband yesterday.
小册子	他给了我一个xiao3ce4zi5记录电话号码。	He gave me a pamphlet for my call numbers.
执勤	有半数卫戍部队在zhi2qin2.	Half the garrison is/are on duty.
泄密	首相是内阁文件xie4mi4政治纠纷的中心人物.	The Prime Minister is at the centre of a political row over leaked Cabinet documents.
凑巧	我们cou4qiao3一同到达这儿。	By coincidence, we arrived here at the same time.
骚乱	警察大批出动，以制止sao1luan4。	The police were out in force to stop any trouble.
闹事	足球队输球后球迷们在街上聚众nao4shi4。	The football supporters ran riot through the town after the defeat of their team.
存货	杂货商有种类繁多的cun2huo4。	The grocer's has plenty varieties of goods in stock.
顶层	她乘电梯迅速到达ding3ceng2.	She (was) whisked up to the top floor in the lift.
盛装	我妻子如往日一般身着sheng4zhuang1从楼上走了下来。	Down came my wife dressed out in all her former splendour.
忘不了	让联赛中最差劲的队打败了? 这是永远也wang4bu5liao3的事!	Beaten by the worst team in the league? They'll never live it down!
并发症	病人因出现bing4fa1zheng4而死亡。	Complications set in, and the patient died.
口令	暗号为通过岗哨而必须给出的秘密记号或kou3ling4；暗语	A secret sign or signal to be given to a sentry in order to obtain passage; a password.
受审	她因涉及诈骗罪而shou4shen3.	She was put on trial for fraud.
失火	窃贼把shi1huo3的仓库里的货物都偷走了.	Thieves snaffled all the goods from the burnt warehouse.
前头	这个人走在我们qian2tou5开路。	The man went ahead of us to clear the course.
钳	木头用qian2夹固定住了.	The wood is held in position by a clamp.
世界大战	本世纪我们已经经历了两次shi4jie4 da4zhan4。	We have had two world wars in this century.
弓	拱形的具有gong1的形式的；弯曲的	Having the form of a bow; curved.
万万	警惕性是wan4wan4不可放松的.	You cannot afford to relax your vigilance for a moment.
山峰	山shan1feng1或丘陵，尤其用在山名的正式名字中	A mountain or hill. Used especially as part of a proper name.
专职	护理人员，医务辅助人员一种受过进行紧急医务护理或辅助zhuan1zhi2医护人员训练的人	A person who is trained to give emergency medical treatment or assist medical professionals.
判刑	她有六次因盗窃而被pan4xing2.	She has six convictions for theft.
工钱	我的gong1qian5不够买一辆汽车。	My wages won't run to a car.
硬是	你不应该ying4shi4反对各种进步形式.	You shouldn't set your face against all forms of progress.
慕尼黑	德语和意大利语课程分别设於Mu4ni2hei1和罗马。	German and Italian courses are held in munich and rome respectively.
上等	大吉岭茶一种shang4deng3的红茶，尤其生长在印度北部地区	A fine variety of black tea grown especially in the northern part of India.
捕获	猎人bu3huo4了一只豪猪。	The hunter seized a porcupine.
作曲家	他超过了同时期的所有其他zuo4qu3jia1。	He excels all other composers of his period.
潜逃	他已qian2tao2出境.	He absconded from the country.
物理学家	贝特，汉斯·阿尔布雷希生于1906德裔美籍wu4li3xue2jia1。因其对恒星能量产生的研究而获1967年诺贝尔奖	German-born American physicist. He won a1967 Nobel Prize for research on the energy production of stars.
嘀咕	演员背台词的时候经常自己嘀di2gu5咕。	Actors often mutter to themselves when rehearsing their lines.
图形	tu2xing2记录便显示了在短的间隙内先后到达的三种波。	The graphic record shows three waves arriving one after the other at short intervals.
纷呈	这片热带森林色彩fen1cheng2的植被使教授惊讶。	The colorful vegetation of this tropical forest amazed the professor.
负荷	分析家说，通过影艺公司向哈考特提出的优厚条件似乎颇有成功的希望，并应可解除这家困难重重的出版商的庞大债务fu4he4，而使基本上健全的营业得到生机。	A sweetened offer for Harcourt by General Cinema appears to have a good chance of success, analysts said, and should give the troubled publisher a new lease on life by freeing its basically sound businesses from the burden of overwhelming debt.
阴沉	yin1chen2的天气让我们都感到压抑。	We were all depressed by the dismal weather.
指明	zhi3ming2它的来处纯洁而珍贵。	How pure, how dear their dwelling-place.
多样	他们将逐步积累起一批内容duo1yang4，比例适当的词汇。	Gradually they will build up a varied, well-balanced vocabulary.
绝大部分	jue2da4bu4fen5党员对极端分子不予理睬.	The lunatic fringe is/are ignored by most members of the party.
看得见	这间屋子粗大的椽子可以kan4de5jian4。	The big rafter is visible in this room.
诊	医生zhen3看了她的舌头。	The doctor looked at her tongue.
聘	他为他的案子pin4了该州最好的律师。	He retained the best lawyer in the state to defend his case.
函数	像，像点han2shu4中与某一集合中特定变量相对应的变量	A set of values of a function corresponding to a particular subset of a domain.
手提	我上来取我的shou3ti2袋，我把它忘在我的办公室了。	I've come up for my bag, I left it in my office.
试穿	我能shi4chuan1一下吗？	May I try it on?
恶习	一种顽固的社会e4xi2扩散到整个社区	A cancer of bigotry spread through the community.
顽皮	他像猴子那麽wan2pi2!	He's as mischievous as a monkey!
纳税	你有什麽要申报na4shui4的吗?	Have you anything to declare?
端庄	他的举止一向十分duan1zhuang1体面。	He always acted with great dignity.
提心吊胆	他总ti2xin1-diao4dan3的，担心被人发现。	The fear of being discovered was his constant companion.
胆大	凶恶的女人被认为dan3da4或凶狠的妇女	A woman regarded as daring or fierce.
征途	战胜癌症的zheng1tu2是漫长的，而且布满意想不到的困难。	The road to the conquest of cancer is long and full of pitfall.
瓶装	夏天收获的大量水果可冷藏或装ping2zhuang1罐加以保存。	In the summer, large crops of fruit may be preserved by freezing or bottling.
坍塌	隧道顶tan1ta1（压住工人）.	The roof of the tunnel caved in (on the workmen).
红军	Hong2jun1长征时走了二万五千里。	The Red Army covered25000 li on the Long March.
语句	他注视著那些yu3ju4, 茫然不解.	He stared at the words in complete puzzlement.
危及	水源污染已经达到wei1ji2居民健康的程度。	Pollution of the water supply reached a level pernicious to the health of the population.
碟子	让die2zi5控乾.	Leave the dishes to drain.
表露	这骚乱仅仅是人们不满的一种biao3lu4而已。	This riot is only one manifestation of people's discontent.
洗涤	要洗的餐具都在xi3di2糟里呢.	The washing-up had been left in the sink.
袖口	她用穗带装饰连衣裙的领口、摺边和xiu4kou3.	She braided the neckline, hem and cuffs of the dress.
已故	他兴办那项慈善事业以纪念他yi3gu4的妻子。	He found the charity in memory of his late wife.
挤压	我的靴子ji3ya1了我脚趾上的水泡。	My boot is pressing against a blister on my toe.
怂恿	他受妻子song3yong3进行这些非法活动.	He was abetted in these illegal activities by his wife.
混凝土	用hun4ning2tu3砌砖.	The bricks are bedded in concrete.
述	讲演者直shu4要点。	The speaker came to the point straight away.
录音机	约翰靠他自己修理lu4yin1ji1。	John fixed the tape recorder by himself.
丝带	从新娘的花束上垂下来的si1dai4打成了一个结。	Ribbon hung from the bride's bouquet was tied in a bow.
技艺	魔术师用他的魔术ji4yi4使观众们激动。	The magician thrilled his audience with his feats of magic.
舵	船的木头duo4坏了。	The wood rudder of the ship was broken.
气流	当飞机向前移动时，机翼上方的qi4liu2产生向上的力使飞机飞离地面保持在空中不坠。	As the air craft moves forward, the air flowing over the wings produces lift to raise the aircraft off the ground, and keep it in the air.
劣质	那个推销员试图以lie4zhi4牌号骗卖给我们。	The salesman tried to fob off an inferior brand on us.
科研	他的传记就是一部ke1yan2记实.	His biography is a saga of scientific research.
大批	今天我处理了一da4pi1信件.	I've got through a lot of correspondence today.
分割	一组某物被fen1ge1后其部分、区域或群组之一	One of the parts, sections, or groups into which something is divided.
备战	该国正进行bei4zhan4[准备打仗].	The country is making preparations for war/to go to war.
玻璃杯	她坐在那里用手指捻着bo1li5bei1的杯颈。	She sit twirl the stem of the glass in her finger
脚踏车	她太小了，不能骑jiao3ta4che1。	She is too little to ride a bicycle.
调子	这小提琴跟钢琴的diao4zi5不太和谐.	The violin is not quite in tune with the piano.
卫兵	新闻界是捍卫我们自由的wei4bing1。	The press is a sentinel of our liberty.
压制	抑制物限制、阻止或ya1zhi4的东西	Something that restrains, blocks, or suppresses.
动词	这个dong4ci2可以用进行式吗？	Could this verb be used in progressive form?
抛锚	我们的汽车在山顶陡坡处pao1mao2了.	Our car stalled on the brow of a steep hill.
伊利	埃阿斯加拿大安大略省东南部的一城镇，位于多伦多东北部Yi1li4湖上。是制造业中心。人口25，475	A town of southeast Ontario, Canada, on Lake Erie northeast of Toronto. It is a manufacturing center. Population, 25,475.
油田	you2tian2里有一口油井发生井喷。	An oil well blew out in the oil field.
副手	他成了她的高级顾问--你要说是她的fu4shou3也未尝不可.	He became her senior adviser her deputy, if you will.
日内瓦	两国首相昨天在Ri4nei4wa3会晤。	The premiers of the two countries met in Geneva yesterday.
牙科	假牙师一种ya2ke1技术师，其专长在于制造和安装假牙，他可以直接为公众服务，而不必通过有执照的ya2ke1医生	A dental technician specializing in making and fitting dentures as a direct service to the public rather than through a licensed dentist.
觅	你能为我mi4到那本罕见的古书吗？	Can you procure the rare old book for me?
径直	他jing4zhi2前往拉各斯, 未在内罗毕停留.	He went straight to Lagos, without stopping in Nairobi.
窃取	平均每天被qie4qu3的货物价值为15英镑。	On average, 15 worth of goods is stole every day.
手推车	一位太太用一辆shou3tui1che1送来一块饼干，这块饼干几乎有500磅重。	One lady brought in a biscuit on a wheelbarrow. It weight nearly500 pounds.
正比	移动物体的力与该物体的质量成zheng4bi3。	The force moving a body is proportional to the mass of the body.
滋生	一家生物工艺开发公司正在根据自然zi1sheng1毒素的原理研制新型农药系列产品。	A biotechnology company is developing a range of new pesticide based on naturally occur toxin.
初出茅庐	哲瑞米是chu1 chu1 mao2lu2，所以我们并不指望他在这次比赛中表现得很好。	Jeremy's just being blooded, so we don't expect him to be very good at the game.
正餐	我喜欢在zheng4can1后吃冰淇淋当甜点。	I like to have ice cream for dessert.
电锯	他让dian4ju4锯掉了一只胳膊。	He had his arm lopped off by an electric saw.
仇人	他的chou2ren2竭力想把他牵扯进谋杀案中.	His enemies tried to implicate him (in the murder).
正巧	他来时，我zheng4qiao3忙着写信。	It happened/chanced that I was busy writing a letter when he came.
走投无路	他们在zou3-tou2 wu2 lu4的情况下恳求援助。	They invoked help in the desperate situation.
生殖	生命活的有机物区别于死的有机物和无机物的特性和性质，主要表现在新陈代谢、生长发育、sheng1zhi2、对刺激的反应、对环境的适应等有机体本身所固有的机能中	The property or quality that distinguishes living organisms from dead organisms and inanimate matter, manifested in functions such as metabolism, growth, reproduction, and response to stimuli or adaptation to the environment originating from within the organism.
墙纸	如果你们在墙板之间的空隙处糊上qiang2zhi3，空隙就看不出来了。	If you paper over the spaces between the wallboards, they won't show.
面色	她看到我们走进来时，mian4se4顿时开朗起来。	Her face lighted up when she saw us enter.
鬼脸	小丑扮出了可笑的gui3lian3。	The clowns pulled funny faces.
散架	我的汽车要san3jia4了.	My car is falling apart.
仪表	你应该多注意一点yi2biao3.	You should take more pride in your appearance.
密西西比	他在Mi4xi1xi1bi3河流域拥有一个大农场。	He has a large farm in the Mississippi Valley.
柔道	段在东方武术中，黑腰带的级别精通达12级中的任一级，如rou2dao4和空手道	Any of12 levels of proficiency at the grade of black belt in martial arts such as judo and karate.
好手	她虽然身有残疾, 却是个游泳hao3shou3.	She swims well despite her disabilities.
用作	这农场一再徵yong4zuo4救援队的活动基地.	The farm was in/under constant requisition as a base for the rescue team.
受惊	shou4jing1的牛群向牧场涌去.	The cattle stampeded towards the farm.
限定	俱乐部的成员xian4ding4在三十岁以下。	Membership in this club is restricted to man under 30.
伤者	法院判给shang1zhe35000英镑损害赔偿费.	The court awarded 5000 (in) damages to the injured man.
狂妄	读者可以感觉到她文章中的kuang2wang4自负令人反感.	Readers may find the pretension and arrogance of her style irritating.
小刀	他用一把xiao3dao1把自己的名字刻在墙上。	He scratched his name on the wall with a knife.
造反	zao4fan3的人经大赦释放回家.	The rebels returned home under a general amnesty.
格格不入	她上学时总觉得和大家ge2ge2 bu4 ru4.	At school she always felt the odd one out.
技师	那位ji4shi1技术很好。	That technician is highly skilled.
窝囊	别那麽wo1nang5!	Don't be such a wimp!
不一定	凭本能行事bu4yi1ding4都对.	Instinct is not always a good guide.
哗哗	雨水从屋顶的破洞处hua1hua1往下流。	The rainwater is splashing down from the hole of the roof.
专制	人民受著凶恶而zhuan1zhi4的军政权的压迫.	The people are held down by a vicious and repressive military regime.
木材	本图所示为mu4cai2的纵剖面.	This illustration shows a section through the timber.
太阳系	火星是tai4yang2xi4的第四颗行星。	Mars is the fourth planet in order from the sun.
笛子	这主调接著由di2zi5合奏.	The melody is next taken up by the flutes.
收藏家	一位老式汽车shou1cang2jia1要弗兰克留神1906年产的煤气前灯。	A collector of antique cars asked Frank to look out for a1906 gas head lamp.
污垢	她从指甲里剔掉wu1gou4.	She cleaned the dirt from her finger-nails.
轻信	qing1xin4的有信赖倾向的；信任的	Having a tendency to confide; trusting.
烹调	你喜欢不喜欢peng1tiao2?	Do you go for cooking?
法西斯	fa3xi1si1专政的垮台引起左翼运动的高涨.	The fall of the fascist dictatorship was followed by a left-wing backlash.
居室	我妻子想起ju1shi4里换块新地毯，不过我们再过6个月就要搬走，那只是白白浪费钱财。	My wife wanted a new carpet in the living room, but as we are moving in six months it would only be money down the drain.
大为	这消息使他们da4wei2吃惊。	The news greatly surprised them.
一败涂地	客队实力太强了--把我们打得yi1 bai4 tu2 di4.	The visiting team was too strong they walked all over us.
警犬	防盗警报器一响，警卫就放出了jing3quan3。	The guard loosed the dogs when the burglar alarm went off.
张望	他四处zhang1wang4，要确定周围没人。	He looked around to confirm that he was alone.
堆满	我挤过了dui1man3货物的集市。	I poked though a bazaar crammed with good.
再婚	我要zai4hun1了，可要保密呀，行吗？	I'm getting married again, but keep it dark, will you?
相近	窗帘的颜色和地毯xiang1jin4。	The color of the curtains approximates that of the rug.
楼房	整个城市到处都在兴建新lou2fang2。	New buildings are sprouting up all over the city.
宾客	据报道，就bin1ke4的舒适程度来说，这家宾馆管理得很好。	The hotel was, from all accounts, very well run as far as the comfort of the guests was concerned.
茁壮	这些玉米秧正zhuo2zhuang4生长。	These corn plants are very vigorous.
重担	送小孩上学的zhong4dan4又推给了我！	I got saddled with taking the children to school again!
填满	装填物为了增加重量或尺寸或tian2man3空余而加进去的物质	Something added in order to augment weight or size or fill space.
偷吃	tou1chi1而不被人发现很有趣。	It is fun eating by stealth without being found.
暗自	她看到自己办公桌上又是一堆要处理的东西就an4zi4叫苦.	She groaned inwardly as she saw the fresh pile of work on her desk.
考卷	kao3juan4答完後请上交（给老师）.	Please give your examination papers in (to the teacher) when you've finished.
石块	向警察投掷的东西有shi2kuai4和瓶子.	Missiles thrown at the police included stones and bottles.
不容	难懂的bu4rong2易理解的；深奥的	Not easily understood; abstruse.
切勿	qie4wu4追逐自己的帽子——人家会乐意为你追回来的嘛，何必去扫人家的兴。	Never run after your own hat—others will be delighted to do it; why spoil their fun.
东南亚	印度支那半岛Dong1nan2 Ya4的一个半岛，包括越南、老挝、柬埔寨、泰国、缅甸和马来西亚的大陆部分。历史上这一片地区曾受印度（尤其是印度教文化）和中国的影响	A peninsula of southeast Asia comprising Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Burma, and the mainland territory of Malaysia. The area was influenced in early times by India(particularly the Hindu culture) and China.
健美	只有少吃多锻炼才能jian4mei3.	You'll never be in shape until you eat less and take more exercise.
磁铁	人类已经学会如何从生铁制出ci2tie3。	Human beings have learned out how to make magnet of cast iron.
动向	趋向总体的倾向、dong4xiang4或进程	A general tendency, movement, or course.
闪光灯	这个博物馆里不准使用shan3guang1deng1。	Flashes are not allowed to be used in this museum.
响声	金属门猛一关上时发出　光的xiang3sheng1.	The metal door rang as it slammed shut.
储藏	库存品已经变质，而且全都搞混了，因此经理决定快刀斩乱麻，把它们当作废品出售，然后重新chu3cang2新的物资。	The old stock had deteriorated and was all mixed up so the manager decided to cut the Gordian knot, sell it all as scrap, and re-stock with new materials.
累赘	这些用人（对我来说）帮不上忙反而是lei2zhui5.	The servants were more of a hindrance than a help (to me).
石膏	医生不得不用shi2gao1绷带来固定他断了的胳膊。	The doctor had to hold his broken arm with a plaster cast.
园艺	生日那天，我收到一套yuan2yi4工具。	I received a set of gardening tools on my birthday.
梳头	她shu1tou2的时候我一直看著她。	I watched her as she combed her hair.
放低	开的发音时，舌头fang4di1并放平，口腔敞开，正如bath一词中的a和father中的a发音一样时。用于元音发音	Pronounced with the tongue placed low and flat and with the oral cavity wide open, like the a in bath when pronounced like the a in father. Used of vowels.
印章	这份文件上盖有王室yin4zhang1。	This document carries the royal seal.
哈欠	他又揉眼睛又打ha1qian5，好像睡了一大觉刚醒似的，	He rubbed his eyes and yawned as though waking up after a long sleep.
腼腆	乔安娜性格温柔而mian3tian3。	Joanna had a gentle retiring disposition.
宣战	一九一七年美国xuan1zhan4，扭转了对德之战的形势。	The American declaration of war in1917 turned/tipped the scales against Germany.
新兴	二十世纪六十年代出现了许多xin1xing1国家。	The 1960s saw the emergence of many new nations.
宽阔	军队从山里开出, 进入kuan1kuo4平原.	The army debouched from the mountains into a wide plain.
跳蚤	[谚]与狗同眠的人必然惹一身tiao4zao5；同坏人为伍必然吃亏。	He that lies down with dogs must rise up with fleas.
占卜	（古罗马）zhan1bu3官古罗马宗教官员的一员，可通过观察并解释某些信号及预兆来预言事情	One of a group of ancient Roman religious officials who foretold events by observing and interpreting signs and omens.
匠	她丈夫是个砌砖jiang4。	Her husband is a brick layer.
脑力	劳动体力或nao3li4的运用，尤指出现困难或精疲力尽时；工作	Physical or mental exertion, especially when difficult or exhausting; work.
化装	我们想去参加hua4zhuang1舞会。	We want to join in the masquerade.
维纳斯	那个雕刻家正在雕一个Wei2na4si1雕像。	The sculptor is working on a sculpture of Venus.
雷鸣	闪电总与lei2ming2相伴。	Lightening is usually accompanied by thunder.
调度	在系统中等待处理的一组或一队列新信息，主diao4du4程序对该队列及其它队列进行扫描，使之顺序进入处理状态。	A queue of new messages(or a group) within a system that are awaiting processing. The main scheduling routine will scan them along with other queues and order them into processing in order.
抗体	反应素个体血液中的一种kang4ti3，可以对诸如气喘病和光粉热这些变态反应产生预先的基因处理	An antibody found in the blood of individuals having a genetic predisposition to allergies such as asthma and hay fever.
佣金	这些推销员可从推销的商品上获得一定百分比的yong4jin1.	The salesmen get a percentage (ie a commission) on everything they sell.
步兵	炮轰敌军阵地之後, 我bu4bing1开始进攻.	Enemy positions were bombarded before our infantry attacked.
精细	钱布雷绸一种由白线穿过彩色纵向线的jing1xi4轻织物	A fine, lightweight fabric woven with white threads across a colored warp.
踏板	我的脚怎麽也够不著ta4ban3.	My feet can hardly reach the pedals.
不祥	乌鸦是bu4xiang2的预兆。	The crow is a bird of ill omen.
茶壶	他在水龙头下面冲洗cha2hu2, 以便把茶叶冲掉.	He rinsed the teapot out under the tap, to get rid of the tea-leaves.
弓箭	射箭运动员，gong1jian4手用gong1jian4射击的技艺、运动或技巧	The art, sport, or skill of shooting with a bow and arrow.
生殖器	走马疳，坏疽性口炎嘴或sheng1zhi2qi4部分严重的经常为生疽性的发炎，通常在感染了传染病后发生，最常发病于卫生条件极差或营养状况不良的孩子	A severe, often gangrenous inflammation of the mouth or genitals, occurring usually after an infectious disease and found most often in children in poor hygienic or malnourished condition.
粉笔	把你自己身上掸掸--上面都是fen3bi3末.	Dust yourself down you're covered in chalk.
接见	他要求总理（同意）jie1jian4（他－次）。	He requested that the Premier grant him an interview.
向下	天底天球上，在观测者垂直xiang4xia4的一点，与天顶完全相对	A point on the celestial sphere directly below the observer, diametrically opposite the zenith.
相像	虽然绵羊看起来很xiang1xiang4，但那位老人仍能一一区别。	Much as the sheep look alike, the old man can tell one from another.
不道德	扫黄对被认为bu4dao4de2或淫秽的文学作品或其它表现或传播此内容的形式进行查禁	Censorship of literature and other forms of expression and communication because of perceived immorality or obscenity.
一线	人难得生病，可是旁观者们却以为他势将必死，并因这yi1xian4希望而精神百倍起来。	A person seldom falls sick, but the bystander is animated with a faint hope that he will die.
立志	小女孩li4zhi4要做一名科学家。	The young girl aspired to be a scientist.
凝结	血液遇到空气就ning2jie2.	Blood coagulates in air.
竭力	他们jie2li4要把火焰扑灭.	They tried to extinguish the flames.
抨击	他猛烈地peng1ji1政府的政策.	He launched into a fierce polemic against the government's policies.
掐死	发现一个老妇人被qia1si3了。	An old woman was found choked to death.
酬劳	我们送些chou2lao2，对您的大力协助聊表谢意。	We are sending you some money in acknowledgement of your valuable help.
偏向	纵使大众也曾pian1xiang4正途也罢，那总是出于错误的原因。	If the multitude ever deviate into the right, it is always for the wrong reason.
荧光	在阴极射线管显示器中，用电子束激励后ying2guang1物质光发射的持续现象。	In cathode ray tube display, the continuation of light emission from phosphor after excitation by the electron beam.
获得者	军功章的huo4de2zhe3们被按级别高低召见──等级最高的官员排在第一位	Recipients of military honors were called in order of precedence梙ighest ranking officers first.
还债	【谚】先huan2zhai4，后慷慨。	Be just before you are generous.
阴森	在这篇爱情背叛和复仇的故事中，表现了yin1sen1可怖的想像力，真是刺激，棒极了。	A darker imagination is at work in this story of betrayed love and revenge. Strong meat and very good.
闲人	不应该让退休的人感到自己是个xian2ren2	A retired person should not be made to feel he's on the shelf.
博学	bo2xue2使人谦逊，无知使人骄傲。	Knowledge makes humble, ignorance makes proud.
和服	he2fu2是日本民族服装的一部分。	The kimono is part of the national costume of Japan.
棕	沿着这条河生长的是高大的zong1 树。	Growing along the river are tall palm trees.
置之不理	他对我们提出的反对意见一概zhi4 zhi1 bu4 li3。	He waved aside all out objections.
打垮	她的敌人阴谋da3kua3她。	Her enemies are scheming her downfall.
冲进	歹徒们chong1jin4酒吧胡乱扫射一通。	The gangster run into the bar and start shooting it up.
头等	降低失业率应是tou2deng3大事。	The reduction of unemployment should be paramount.
补助	bu3zhu4费政府给予工矿企业的bu3zhu4	A subsidy from a government to an industry.
柔	她长得娇rou2美丽。	She is delicate and pretty in person.
针灸	zhen1jiu3，针刺疗法，针刺麻醉以细针扎入身体特定部位以减轻疼痛或诱导局部麻醉的方法	A technique, as for relieving pain or inducing regional anesthesia, in which thin needles are inserted into the body at specific points.
残余	她将放在冰箱里的一些can2yu2食物拼凑成一餐饭。	He made a meal of the odds and ends that were left in the refrigerator.
废品	那个fei4pin3商有个压碎汽车的机器.	The scrap merchant has a machine which crushes cars.
谷物	他们投机购买gu3wu4是不合法的。	Their speculative buying of grain is illegal.
结成	水jie2cheng2冰的温度是32华氏度（32　）或零摄氏度（0℃）.	Water freezes at 32 degrees Fahrenheit (32 F) or zero/nought degrees Celsius (0 C).
齿轮	变速器，换档装置在一传送过程中从一个chi3lun2变到另一个chi3lun2的一种机械装置	A mechanism for changing from one gear to another in a transmission.
深受	他送我这么珍贵的礼物使我shen1shou4感动。	Such a precious gift did he give me that I was deeply touched.
黯淡	烛光在日光下显得很an4dan4。	The light of a candle is dimmed by sunlight.
申诉	shen1su4民事诉讼中被告对原告所做的陈述状的回答	A defendant's answer to the declaration made by the plaintiff in a civil action.
核电站	正在建造的he2dian4zhan4预计在五年後投产.	The nuclear plant now being built is expected to be commissioned in five years' time.
实地	老保姆为这个家庭忠shi2di4服务了三十年.	The old nurse had served the family faithfully for thirty years.
低沉	他用di1chen2的语调说话。	He spoke in sepulchral tones.
梵蒂冈	罗马教廷公使职位低于罗马教皇使节的Fan4di4gang1的外交使者或代表	A Vatican diplomatic envoy or representative ranking just beneath a nuncio.
商讨	那位作家拒绝和他们的出版社进一步shang1tao3。	The writer refused to make further negotiations with their publisher.
巴比伦	伦敦也被称为现代Ba1bi3lun2。	London was also called the modern Babylon.
形容词	xing2rong2ci2的作用是描述或增加名词的意思。	The function of an adjective is to describe or add to the meaning of a noun.
受骗	我在一次邮购诈欺中shou4pian4了。	I got bitten in a mail order swindle.
不定	bu4ding4代名词的。用于代词	Indefinite. Used of pronouns.
手柄	他轻轻按下shou3bing3。	He pressed lightly on the handle.
浓密	一片nong2mi4的森林包围着城堡。	A thick forest girdled the castle about.
熟知	他对穷人的慷慨为人所shu2zhi1。	His generosity to the poor is well known.
归咎	他们把这个过失gui1jiu4于我的疏忽。	They charged the fault to my carelessness.
合众国	美利坚he2zhong4guo2保证he2zhong4guo2各州实行共和政体。	The United States shall guarantee to every state in this union a republican form of government.
约瑟	Yue1se4醒来马上起床，连夜带着母子俩逃往埃及。他在那儿一直住到希律王死去。	So Joseph rose from sleep, and taking mother and child by night he went away with them to Egypt, and there he stayed till Herod's death.
教士	这位jiao4shi4受到所有村民的尊敬。	This clergyman is respected by all the villagers.
静悄悄	房子里面jing4qiao1qiao1的。	It was quiet inside the house.
小题大做	一晚放映三个同一主题的访问记实, 真是xiao3 ti2 da4 zuo4.	It was surely overkill to screen three interviews on the same subject in one evening.
挪用	部长被查出nuo2yong4了公款。	The minister was found to have appropriated government money.
职权	警察组成这样一个部门的一群人，他们被专门训练来掌握执行法律和防止并侦破犯罪行为的方法，被授予维护一个社区的和平、安全和秩序的zhi2quan2	A body of persons making up such a department, trained in methods of law enforcement and crime prevention and detection and given the authority to maintain the peace, safety, and order of the community.
编写	在bian1xie3这本书的过程中，她起了显著的作用。	She play a notable role in compile the book.
失足	他shi1zu2自十英尺高处跌了下来.	He slipped and fell ten feet.
寄生	潜隐体一种处于发育阶段的疟疾ji4sheng1虫，在侵入红血细胞之前，ji4sheng1在体内组织中	A malarial parasite at the stage of development in which it inhabits bodily tissue before invading the red blood cells.
现代化	xian4dai4hua4的都市里遍地是高楼大厦。	In modern cities there are high-rise buildings everywhere.
扑灭	那所房子燃烧了数小时火才pu1mie4。	The house burned for hours before the blaze was put out.
抱有	我奶奶对外国人bao4you3偏见。	My grandmother has a complex against foreigners.
开刀	医生们决定为他kai1dao1切除肿瘤。	The doctors decided to operate on him for the tumor.
城乡	侵略者在沿海cheng2xiang1抢劫食物和贵重物品.	The invaders plundered food and valuables from coastal towns and villages.
烙印	他的脸上有饱经苦难的lao4yin4。	His face bears the stamp of suffering.
肉食	科学家们一直在想法子提高牲畜的质量以向市场提供更好的rou4shi2。	Scientists have been trying to find methods of grading up cattle to provide better meat for the market.
车身	che1shen1机动车的金属和塑料的外部结构	The metal or plastic external structure of a motor vehicle.
当着	你竟dang1zhe5别人面前告诉他，实在很不机智。	It wasn't very tactful of you to tell him in front of others.
雨衣	没带yu3yi1那就避一下雨.	Do keep out of the rain if you haven't a coat.
村落	西非歌舞艺人在西非地区保持cun1luo4或家族口头传统和历史的讲故事者	A storyteller in western Africa who perpetuates the oral tradition and history of a village or family.
得病	前几天他de2bing4了。	He fall sick the other day.
佛罗伦萨	比萨在（Fo2luo2lun2sa4的）西边.	Pisa is to the west (of Florence).
空无一人	在kong1wu2yi1ren2的办公室里电话铃突然地发出刺耳的尖叫声。	Telephone shrilled unattended in deserted office.
磷	铜合金铜与锡、锑、lin2或其物质构成的一种合金，含锡，也可不含锡	Any of various alloys of copper, with or without tin, and antimony, phosphorus, or other components.
冲锋	敌人向山上chong1feng1，企图把我们的兵力摧毁掉。	The enemy charged up the mountain, attempting to knock out our forces.
引出	脚注放在书或手稿的页底的注释，对文中的标明的一部分加以评论或yin3chu1参考书目	A note placed at the bottom of a page of a book or manuscript that comments on or cites a reference for a designated part of the text.
眼界	yan3jie4视野，理能能力或经历的范围；yan3jie4	Range of vision, comprehension, or experience; outlook.
心虚	你看上去xin1xu1。	You look guilty.
束手无策	谁也不会象病金鱼的主人般觉得那样shu4shou3 wu2 ce4。	No one can feel as helpless as the owner of a sick goldfish.
永久性	磁化使一个物体具有暂时或yong3jiu3xing4磁性的过程，例如把一个物体放入磁物中	The process of making a substance temporarily or permanently magnetic, as by insertion in a magnetic field.
鸟巢	杜鹃在别的niao3chao2中产卵.	The cuckoo lays its eggs in other birds' nests.
分工	蚂蚁间有明确的fen1gong1。	There is a clear division of labor in ants.
铆钉	我可以用mao3ding1把这些金属板固定在一起吗？	Can I fasten these metal plates with rivets?
流言蜚语	她失踪一事引起了各种liu2yan2-fei1yu3.	Her disappearance gave rise to the wildest rumours.
包皮	膜，包袋包裹性的结构或bao1pi2，如膜或病毒的外壳	An enclosing structure or cover, such as a membrane or the outer coat of a virus.
田地	tian2di4干旱，需要雨水。	The fields are thirsty for rain.
控制权	计算机或某个工作站为获得线路kong4zhi4quan2以进行数据传输的一种企图。参阅BID。	An attempt by the computer or by a station to gain control of a line in order to transmit data.
读数	温度计显示的du2shu4为32C.	The thermometer registered 32C.
妄	不要对结果wang4加猜测.	Don't conjecture about the outcome.
客运	（固定路线的）运输系统通常有固定路线的公有或私有贷运或ke4yun4系统，如船运、空运或汽运	A passenger or cargo system of public or private transportation, as by ship, aircraft, or bus, usually over a definite route.
杆子	他在地上树起了一根gan1zi5.	He set a post in the ground.
梅子	mei2zi5酱由干mei2zi5或杏子做成的甜酱或油酥点心馅	A sweet spread or pastry filling made of prunes or apricots.
绝密	他因违犯jue2mi4条例, 成了处罚对象.	By breaking the rule of absolute secrecy, he became a marked man.
升空	五、 四、 三、 二、 一、 零. 我们sheng1kong1了!	Five, four, three, two, one, zero. We have lift-off!
深知	他是一个精明的商人，shen1zhi1自己的利益所在。	He was a shrewd businessman. He knew which side his bread was buttered on.
叫喊	她一反常态, 向他愤怒地jiao4han3.	She lost her usual equilibrium and shouted at him angrily.
下摆	她的连衣裙xia4bai3离膝盖整整三英寸.	Her dress was a full three inches above the knee.
集资	他们ji2zi1到一大笔款子。	They clubbed together a large sum.
劝说	他以晓之以礼的态度quan4shuo1她。	He talked to her with persuasive manner.
任职	ren4zhi2时间最长的官员事事优先.	The longest-serving officer always takes precedence.
耶酥	圣诞节是为了纪念Ye1su1的诞生。	Christmas commemorates the birth of Christ.
文人	出版商付给他雇佣的wen2ren2很低的费用。	The publisher paid his hacks low.
拱	那个gong3的跨度为60米.	The arch has a span of 60 metres.
告示	闪光装置如广告宣传gao4shi5上的一种自动点燃或熄灭电灯的装置	A device that automatically switches an electric lamp off and on, as in a commercial display sign.
铁匠	这个tie3jiang4给铁棒加热，直到烧红为止。	The blacksmith heated the iron bar until it glowed.
起义	它组织了一个反对侵略者的qi3yi4。	It organized an insurrection against the aggressors.
云层	yun2ceng2正在堆积。	Clouds are banking up.
分清	我们应该fen1qing1是非。	We should make a distinction between right and wrong.
用意	他的yong4yi4不是这个，只是做做样子罢了。	He doesn't really mean it; it's just an act.
日光浴	沙滩上挤满了作ri4guang1yu4的人们.	The beach was crowded with sunbathers.
沉静	我装着没有注意到他已经变得多么chen2jing4了。	I pretended not to notice how quiet he had become.
本市	她无疑是ben3shi4最好的律师。	She is easily the best lawyer in the city.
长篇	我从来没听过像这样的chang2pian1废话.	I've never heard such a rigmarole.
三色	san1se4性某些矿物质所具有的特性，当放在白光下从三个不同的方向观察，会呈现出三种不同的颜色	The property possessed by certain minerals of exhibiting three different colors when viewed from three different directions under white lights.
催化剂	氢化裂解将石油的含氢分子分裂成更简单的分子（象汽油和煤油的分子）的过程，此分裂过程是在加cui1hua4ji4及高压氢气的条件上进行的	A process by which the hydrocarbon molecules of petroleum are broken into simpler molecules, as of gasoline or kerosene, by the addition of hydrogen under high pressure and in the presence of a catalyst.
善心	他的shan4xin1使得许多穷孩子上大学成为可能。	His benevolence made it possible for many poor children to attend college.
弗洛伊德	心理分析由西格蒙德·Fu2luo4yi1de2创立的一套精神治疗的方法，用自由联系、对梦的阐释和对抵抗和移情的分析来研究被压抑或无意识的冲动、焦虑和内心冲突	The method of psychiatric therapy originated by Sigmund Freud in which free association, dream interpretation, and analysis of resistance and transference are used to explore repressed or unconscious impulses, anxieties, and internal conflicts.
爱神	古希腊人为ai4shen2阿弗罗狄特造了许多神庙。	The ancient Greek dedicated many shrines to Aphrodite.
由此	我们爬上小丘的顶端，you2ci3可以俯瞰城市。	We climbed to the top of the small elevation, from which we could look at the town.
重病	照顾一个zhong4bing4号的谨慎的护士	A watchful nurse tending a critically ill patient.
索赔	保险公司已经清偿了她的suo3pei2款额.	The insurance company has settled her claim.
狭小	小的隐居处所xia2xiao3、简陋的住所，比如隐士的山洞或棚屋	A small, humble abode, such as a hermit's cave or hut.
麦芽	男主人拿出了一瓶12年的优质mai4ya2威士忌。	The host took out a bottle of 12-year-old malt whisky to entertain us.
潮水	那船逆著chao2shui3缓慢地前进.	The boat made slow headway against the tide.
显微镜	望远镜和xian3wei1jing4是光学仪器。	Microscopes and telescopes are optical instruments.
辛辣	浓烈的气味xin1la4或浓烈的	Sharp or pungent to the smell.
年幼	有个nian2you4的学生在炎炎烈日下晕倒了。	A young student fainted in the hot sun.
滑落	肥皂从我手上hua2luo4了。	The soap slipped out of my hand.
克林顿	Ke4lin2dun4就职美国总统。	Mr. Clinton was inaugurated as the President of the U.S.A.
航道	hang2dao4有浮标标明.	The channel is marked by buoys.
烈酒	这家商店获许，可经销啤酒、葡萄酒及lie4jiu3。	The store is licensed to sell beer, wine and spirits.
蓄	【谚】xu4物必有其用。	Lay things by, they many come to use.
序幕	签定这一协议是两国关系加强的xu4mu4。	The signing of the agreement was a prologue to better relations between the two countries.
密谋	有些人一直mi4mou2想让老板把秘书解雇。	Some of the members had been intriguing to get the secretary dismissed.
坚定不移	他jian1ding4-bu4yi2地信仰共产主义。	His belief of communism is immovable.
搬运	这些货物必须小心ban1yun4。	This freight must be carefully handled.
电工	别瞎动电线线路, 你又不是dian4gong1.	Don't meddle with the electrical wiring: you're not an electrician.
榜首	她在国内第一流指挥家中名列bang3shou3.	She ranks foremost among the country's leading conductors.
苦头	该镇未采取适当的防洪措施, 现在吃到了ku3tou5.	The town is now counting the cost of its failure to provide adequate flood protection.
一连	他yi1lian24顿没有吃上饭。	He missed four meals in succession.
与生俱来	自由是我们yu3sheng1ju4lai2的权利	Freedom is our birthright.
付诸	他的建议在理论上可以, 但不能fu4zhu1实现。	His proposition is good in theory but cannot be put into practice.
未曾	她wei4ceng2想到这计谋反倒使她自食其果.	The scheme rebounded on her in a way she had not expected.
尽心尽力	他像是想要人jin4xin1jin4li4伺候他。	He seems to expect to be wait on hand and foot.
脱下	在某些亚洲的国家，进屋子之前tuo1xia4鞋子才是有礼貌的。	Before entering a house in some Asian countries, it is good manners to take off your shoes.
走入	他们不敢zou3ru4森林中阴暗的深处。	They dare not walk into the shadowy depths of the forest.
长得	我的头发zhang3 de5很长了。	My hair has grown very long.
科长	他被任命为ke1zhang3。	He is nominated section chief.
油箱	你需用泵著实抽吸几分钟, 才能把you2xiang1灌满.	You will need to pump hard for several minutes to fill the tank.
味觉	wei4jue2与嗅觉是密切相关的.	Taste and smell are closely connected.
俯瞰	我们从山上fu3kan4下面的山谷。	We looked down from the mountain to the valley below.
绊脚石	里根先生将近２兆联邦及贸易负债（亦即每户３万元）将是经济成长的ban4jiao3shi2。	Mr.Reagan's nearly$2 trillion in Federal and trade debt(or$30, 000 per family) will be a ball and chain around the neck of economic growth.
篇章	我展望前头，纽约的高楼大厦在我前面升起，似乎是从童话故事的pian1zhang1中出现的一座城市。	I look ahead, and before me rise the fantastic towers of New York, a city that seems to have stepped from the pages of a fairy story.
毛毛虫	mao2mao5chong2必须经过茧的阶段才能变成蝴蝶。	A caterpillar must pass through the cocoon stage to become a butterfly.
活塞	把九号车床调好来车这个新huo2sai1。	Get lathe No.9 set to turn the new piston.
师范	这所中学附属于一所shi1fan4院校。	This middle school is attached to a teachers' college.
一窍不通	他坐在那儿发表他对法制的高论, 虽然他对此yi1 qiao4 bu4 tong1.	He sat there pontificating about the legal system although it was clear that he knew very little about it.
法国人	据说Fa3guo2ren2是世界上最好的园丁。	It is said that the Frenchman may be the best gardener in the world.
致意	他在街上向我亲切地挥手zhi4yi4.	He greeted me in the street with a friendly wave of the hand.
撤出	敌军推进时, 士兵都che4chu1了那地区.	The soldiers evacuated the area as the enemy advanced.
崎岖	qi2qu1不平的道路使车颠簸得很厉害。	The rough road made the car vibrate.
决议	政府通过了一项不得人心的jue2yi4。	The government passed an unpopular decision.
国有	美guo2you3多少州?	How many States are there in the United States of America?
指指点点	当了名人的麻烦之一是在街上被人zhi3zhi3dian3dian3。	One of the penalties of fame is that people point at you on the street.
横幅	游行者打著heng2fu2, 上有大字｀禁止使用核武器＇.	The marchers carried banners with the words `No Nuclear Weapons' in large letters.
欠债	他挥霍无度, 难怪总qian4zhai4.	His extravagance explains why he is always in debt.
鸦片	巴鲁克先生讲述了他所认为的禁止抽ya1pian4烟的最好方法，大家都热烈赞同。	Mr Baruch stated what he thought the best method of suppressing opium smoking and the people heartily entered into his views.
非正式	我们做了fei1zheng4shi4的会晤。	We had an informal meeting.
离不开	学习外语li2bu5kai1好的词典。	A good dictionary is indispensable for learning a foreign language.
归功	他把他的成功gui1gong1于幸运。	He ascribes his success to good luck.
稚嫩	zhi4nen4的；无经验的，不老练的缺乏经验或老练的；天真的	Lacking experience or sophistication; naive.
豆类	对於素食者来说, dou4lei4食物是蛋白质的理想来源.	Pulses are a good source of protein for vegetarians.
法老	古埃及的许多fa3lao3相信他们可以永生。	Many Pharaohs in ancient Egypt believe they can live forever.
光天化日	在拥挤的街道上, guang1tian1-hua4ri4之下竟发生了抢劫.	The robbery occurred in broad daylight, in a crowded street.
双臂	她shuang1bi4垂在两旁，懒洋洋地躺在椅子上。	She was lolling in a chair, with her arms hanging over the sides.
摆出	他bai3chu1一幅笑脸，不过这似乎让他使尽了全身的气力。	He summoned up a smile, though it seemed to take all his strength.
特等	火车中的侍者，服务员火车上的卧铺车厢或te4deng3豪华客车中服务于旅客的雇员	A railroad employee who waits on passengers in a sleeping car or parlor car.
全天候	一种坚韧的quan2tian1hou4织物	A tough all-weather fabric.
挤满	这家新开的商店里ji3man3了顾客。	The new store is crowded with customers.
音调	yin1diao4的调整在yin1diao4和音高上的变化	Alteration in pitch or tone of the voice.
滑行	我们关闭发动机开始hua2xing2.	We switched off the motor and started to drift (along).
发痒	我嗓子fa1yang3--大概是感冒了.	I've got this tickle in my throat I think I may be getting a cold.
庆贺	节日，喜庆日享受或qing4he4的时节，尤指在宗教意义上有定期间隔的一天或一段时间	An occasion for feasting or celebration, especially a day or time of religious significance that recurs at regular intervals.
保温	我们在上个冰冻期之後把管道用bao3wen1材料裹上了。	After the last freeze-up we put insulation round the pipes.
咽下	服用药片很容易, 只须放在口中yan4xia4即可.	Taking pills is easy; just put them in your mouth and swallow.
安葬	an1zang4是在大清早进行的，没有举行葬礼。	The burial was done early in the morning without a ceremony.
买入	美元的mai3ru4价是100美元付864元人民币。	The buy rate of US dollar note be846 yuan per hundred dollar.
政党	大选在即, 主要zheng4dang3间的论战愈演愈烈.	As the election approaches the war of words between the main political parties becomes increasingly intense.
私生子	由于这对已婚夫妇无法生育，他们领养了一个si1sheng1zi3。	As the married couple can't have children, they have adopted a child born out of wedlock.
后世	他给hou4shi4留下了不朽的典范。	He left behind an immortal example to all posterity.
半径	住在离城中心ban4jing425英里的范围内的家庭	Every family within a radius of25 miles of the city center.
打消	那样的天气情况da3xiao1了任何打猎的念头。	The weather conditions ruled out any chance of hunting that day.
混合物	那个球被充满了气体hun4he2wu4。	The ball is filled with gaseous mixture.
床位	我可以在我的寓所里为你提供一个chuang2wei4。	I'll fit you up with a bed at my flat.
累坏	他在繁重工作的压力之下lei4huai4了。	He broke under the strain of heavy work.
侵害	我反对我们的隐私权受到qin1hai4。	I object to our privacy being invaded.
救星	天气干旱了这么久，这场雨成了农民的jiu4xing1。	After so much dry weather, the rain has been the farmer's salvation.
休养	玛丽的父亲动手术后需要长期在疗养院xiu1yang3。	Mary's father had to stay in a rest home for a long time after his operation.
舒展	狗shu1zhan3着四肢躺在树下。	The dog stretched out under the tree.
救火	破墙槌一种非常沉重的金属槌，是jiu4huo3人员和执法官员用来捣破墙和门而用的	A very heavy metal bar used by firefighters and law enforcement officers to break down walls and doors.
小说家	xiao3shuo1jia1塑造人物并设计作品的情节.	A novelist creates characters and a plot.
排泄	pai2xie4的，排除的引起腹泻，尤指肠泻的；净肠的	Causing evacuation, especially of the bowels; purgative.
三角形	他用红笔画出san1jiao3xing2.	He outlined the triangle in red.
通车	国王和王后陛下今天将为新桥tong1che1典礼剪彩。	Their Majesty will open the new bridge today.
教义	阐述jiao4yi4无误的阐释有关信仰或精神的jiao4yi4时不出错的	Incapable of error in expounding doctrine on faith or morals.
生人	那个跳舞女郎在sheng1ren2面前没一点紧张。	The dance girl is quite at home in front of strangers.
答谢	她为寻回遗失的手镯提出以酬金da2xie4.	She offered a reward for the return of her lost bracelet.
紫罗兰	她在花园里种了一些zi3luo2lan2。	She planted some violets in the garden.
交接	交割失信在股票或抵押品售出后，未能在规定日期内办理jiao1jie1手续	Failure to receive the proceeds of a transaction, as in the sale of stock or securities, by a specified date.
污秽	wu1hui4导致疾病丛生.	Dirt breeds disease.
措辞	立法机关颁布了一项新的酒业法，cuo4ci2通俗易懂。	The legislature has enacted a new liquor law, and he that runs may read.
全权	特命quan2quan2公使派驻国外使馆的特命quan2quan2使节，仅低于大使	A minister plenipotentiary assigned to a foreign embassy, ranking next below the ambassador.
开路	这个人走在我们前头kai1lu4。	The man went ahead of us to clear the course.
经销商	我们向jing1xiao1shang1出售汽车, 不卖给一般人.	We sell cars to the trade, not to the general public.
乡下人	粗鄙的xiang1xia5ren2具有粗鄙者特点的，笨拙的，愚蠢的，xiang1xia5ren2的	Having the characteristics of a lout; awkward, stupid, and boorish.
交加	因风雪jiao1jia1道路上混乱不堪.	The wintry weather has caused chaos on the roads.
电线杆	在黑暗中他撞上了一根dian4xian4gan1。	He ran against a lamp post in the dark.
阴凉	灰壤，灰化土一种淋洗的土壤，主要形成于yin1liang2而湿润的地带	A leached soil formed mainly in cool, humid climates.
体形	这只雄鹿ti3xing2健壮。	This hart has a strong figure.
老掉牙	那电影的情节是lao3diao4ya2的。	The film had a rather tired plot.
毫不犹豫	坚定的hao2 bu5 you2 yu4的或毫不迟疑的；坚决的	Free from hesitation or vacillation; resolute.
缆车	国外游客都想访问一下lan3che1的终点站——渔民之埠。	Fisherman's Wharf, a place all foreigners want to see, is at the end of the ride.
宙斯	艾奥zhou4 si1所爱的少女，被赫拉变成丁小母牛	A maiden who was loved by Zeus and transformed by Hera into a heifer.
精湛	医术最jing1zhan4的医生们在国王生病时诊治他。	The most eminent doctors treated the king in his illness.
评为	满90分的学生ping2wei2甲等.	Pupils with 90% or more are awarded Grade A.
先行	兵马未动, 粮草xian1xing2。	Food and fodder should go ahead of troops and horses.
运动场	男孩子们在yun4dong4chang3的墙上用粉笔画上了球门柱.	The boys chalked out goalposts on the playground wall.
有余	我们的水果充足you3yu2.	We have enough fruit and to spare.
厚实	他穿著hou4shi5的大衣以抵御严寒.	He wore a thick overcoat as a protection against the bitter cold.
守时	一个shou3shi2的人总是把事情提前做好。	A punctual person always finishes everything ahead of time.
索要	现已有数千人给我们来信suo3yao4免费样品.	Thousands of people have written in to us for a free sample.
遥望	我yao2wang4天空，只见风筝越来越小。	I looked up into the sky and saw the kite become smaller and smaller.
车流	记住，靠近大桥时开慢一些，迎面来的che1liu2有先行权。	Remember to ease up as you approach the bridge; oncoming traffic has the right of way.
摄取	鱼通过鳃she4qu3氧气.	Fish take in oxygen through their gills.
生出	验证协议的程序，它从一个给定的初始状态机械地产sheng1chu1一切可以到达的状态，并且审查每一状态下用户定义的条件的有效性。	A program for protocol verification which mechanically generates all states reachable from a given initial state and checks the validity of user defined conditions in each state.
肥料	给花园再多施些fei2liao4.	Get some more fertilizer for the garden.
重任	决策的zhong4ren4全落在她的肩上了。	The full weight of decision-making falls on her.
排挤	小商店受到大型超级市场不断pai2ji3.	Small shops are being crowded out by the big supermarkets.
爱抚	这个孤独的孩子渴望母亲的ai4fu3。	The lonely child is longing for the caress of his mother.
行医	xing2yi1道德有规定, 禁止医生与病人谈恋爱.	Medical ethics (ie those observed by the medical profession) forbid a doctor to have a love affair with a patient.
床铺	不要替我操心chuang2pu4的事。我就睡在地板上好了。	Don't worry about a bed for me, I can kip down on the floor.
树丛	那士兵看见一支枪从矮shu4cong2伸出来。	The soldier saw a gun jutting out from a bush.
起居室	我们的qi3ju1shi4里铺了地毯。	Our living room is covered with a carpet.
冰镇	菜要择, 汤要加热. 还得摆上餐具, 把酒bing1zhen4一下.	There are the vegetables to peel and the soup to heat. Then there's the table to lay and the wine to cool.
李子	半数的li3zi5腐烂了.	Half of the plums are rotten.
记忆犹新	那孩子已死去多时, 我对其面容仍ji4yi4 you2 xin1.	The image of the dead child's face stuck in my mind for ages.
南面	那镇位於伦敦nan2mian4.	The town is to the south of (ie situated further south than) London.
缓刑	huan3xing2对已被认定犯有某罪的人实行暂缓执行其刑罚，并在其保证良好行为的基础上给予暂时的自由	The act of suspending the sentence of a person convicted of a criminal offense and granting that person provisional freedom on the promise of good behavior.
斧子	她一fu3zi5就把树苗砍倒了.	She cut down the sapling with one chop.
东欧	尽人皆知，苏联对古巴这时的发展感到不快，""这位［欧洲］外交官说。可是他又说，苏联允许国内及Dong1 Ou1有较多的自由，""若强行逼迫加勒比海的盟邦，那可真是矛盾。""	It's no secret that the Soviets are not happy about the developments here in Cuba, "" the [European] diplomat said. But he added that with the Soviets permitting more freedom at home and within Eastern Europe, ""it would be a real contradiction to twist the arm of its Caribbean ally.""
叫作	她把新歌剧院jiao4zuo4 “那讨厌的庞然大物”。	She calls the new opera house ""that hideous erection"".
连锁店	汉堡包lian2suo3dian4声明他们只用上等牛肉。	The hamburger chain say it only use premium quality beef.
分化	无限生长fen1hua4的能无限生长或分割的，用于培养中的细胞	Capable of indefinite growth or division. Used of cells in culture.
棱角	角形角形，角的轮廓或leng2jiao3	Angular forms, outlines, or corners.
父母亲	他为fu4-mu3qin1兴建了一楝新房子。	He has built his parents a new house.
快步	他们看着电视里的kuai4bu4舞并且试图模仿。	They watched jig on TV and tried to imitate.
暗语	暗号为通过岗哨而必须给出的秘密记号或口令；an4yu3	A secret sign or signal to be given to a sentry in order to obtain passage; a password.
受贿	我对这些官员的普遍shou4hui4感到震惊。	I'm shocked at the prevalence of bribery among these officials.
超声波	chao1sheng1bo1心动描记器一种用来显示详细的大脑图象的仪器，利用chao1sheng1bo1发送和反射的差异来测试并无伤无痛	An instrument that in a painless and noninvasive manner uses the differential transmission and reflection of ultrasonic waves to create a detailed visual image of the brain.
寺院	si4yuan4的墙壁上刻著很多装饰物.	Many adornments were carved on the temple walls.
美容院	我妹妹每周去一次mei3rong2yuan4。	My sister goes to a beauty parlour once a week.
无足轻重	他只听到他们交谈中wu2 zu2 qing1-zhong4的部分.	He only heard the fag-end of their conversation.
熔岩	黑曜岩火山玻璃，一般为黑色，带状，摔碎时色泽光亮，表面变曲，由火山rong2yan2迅速凝而成	A usually black or banded, hard volcanic glass that displays shiny, curved surfaces when fractured and is formed by rapid cooling of lava.
肉桂	姜、 肉豆蔻、 rou4gui4、 胡椒、 丁香都是常用的香料.	Ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, pepper and cloves are common spices.
克里斯托弗	Ke4li3si1tuo1fu2·哥伦布是伟大的探险家。	Christopher Columbus was one of the great explorers.
财力	与你的cai2li4相称的价格	Prices to fit your pocketbook.
快艇	他若能买得起豪华的kuai4ting3, 就更能匀出钱来还债了.	If he can afford a luxury yacht, then a fortiori he can afford to pay his debts.
随波逐流	他们在黑黝黝的洪水中sui2bo1-zhu2liu2。	Down the sable flood they glided.
照旧	她病了。然而她zhao4jiu4去上班，并且尽力集中精神工作。	She felt ill. She went to work, however, and tried to concentrate.
罚球	在足球锦标赛的最后３分钟时，两队还是不分胜负，突然切尔斯队的中锋非常出色地在fa2qiu2区之外将功赎罪球顶入了网内。	The two teams were drawing with only three minutes of play left in the Cup Final when Chelsea's centre forward pulled a master stroke and headed the ball into the net from outside the penalty area.
奴役	被束缚的受nu2yi4的；被征服的	Held in bondage; enslaved.
卧床	我病了, 我得wo4chuang2休息。	I am sick, I have to confine to bed.
子民	摩西率领以色列的zi3min2离开了埃及。	Moses led the children of Israel out of the Egypt.
财政部	cai2zheng4bu4原则上反对这些提议。	The Treasury was opposed in principle to the proposals.
雄性	由喙部为红色这一特点可以辨认出其为xiong2xing4（以区别於雌性）.	The male is distinguished (from the female) by its red beak.
镇压	警方把暴乱zhen4ya1了下去.	The police succeeded in quelling the riot.
抵触	英国法律有没有和任何国际法相di3chu4？	Do British laws conflict with any international laws?
鸵鸟	他的想象力有类于tuo2niao3的翅膀—虽未可以飞翔，犹可使他奔驰。	His imagination resemble the wing of an ostrich. it enabled him to run, though not to soar.
服侍	青年仆人正fu2shi5他的主人进晚餐。	The young servant is waiting upon his master to have dinner.
关切	我们两国被共同guan1qie4的问题连结在一起。	Our two nations are knit together by common concerns.
语调	他能感觉到他们对他拙劣作品的讽刺yu3diao4。	He could feel their sarcastic tone about his poor work.
菜肴	阿都波一种由海菜及肉或鱼做成的菲律宾cai4yao2，用咖喱、酱油和香料作调料，佐以米饭	A Philippine dish of marinated vegetables and meat or fish seasoned with garlic, soy sauce, and spices and served with rice.
探寻	他用树枝在泥里tan4xun2，想找回丢失的戒指。	He probed the mud with a stick, looking for the ring he had dropped.
恩人	安不应该这样谈论她的en1ren2.	It ill behoves Anne (ie She ought not) to speak thus of her benefactor.
不符	这种理论与已知事实bu4fu2。	This theory is at variance with the known facts.
长袍	她穿着半透明丝质chang2pao2。	She wears a translucent silk gown.
及其	那些出席者中有首相ji2qi2丈夫.	Among those present were the Prime Minister and her husband.
阑尾	她已住院去切除lan2wei3.	She's gone into hospital to have her appendix taken out.
眼镜蛇	yan3jing4she2通常是有毒的。	Cobras are usually poisonous.
作伴	你能过来和我们zuo4 ban4吗?	Can you come over and join us?
浴巾	那套有你亲手绣着我们名字的yu4jin1美极了。	The set of bath towels you personally monogrammed for us is beautiful.
新建	我家附近xin1jian4了一家工厂。	A new factory was established near my home.
赎回	他们不得不shu2hui2被绑架的外交官。	They had to ransom the kidnapped diplomat.
轻快	qing1kuai4的或充满活力的移动或步伐	A light or resilient manner of moving or walking.
独裁者	现售货物；现在正在衰老下去的du2cai2zhe3	Goods now on sale; the now aging dictator.
脸孔	他的确有一副严肃的lian3kong3，但内心却是很富幽默感。	Indeed he has a solemn face, but he is very humorous at heart.
不慎	若时机不当, 一言bu4shen4, 可能毁掉整个计画.	One indiscreet remark at the wrong moment could ruin the whole plan.
递交	她向他di4jiao1了辞呈。	She proffered him her resignation.
回声	他的声音在空荡的大厅里发出hui2sheng1。	His voice echoed in the big empty hall.
汞	牙医用gong3合金给我补牙.	The dentist used amalgam to fill my teeth.
住户	在接受调查的五百家zhu4hu4中, 40% 有洗碗机.	Of the five hundred householders surveyed, 40% had dishwashers.
生性	她sheng1xing4乐观有助於她渡过难关。	Her natural resilience helped her overcome the crisis.
繁琐	手续fan2suo3复杂，不一而足。	The modes of procedure are various and many.
连忙	他lian2mang2接受了我提供的东西或办法等。	He snapped at the offer I made him.
里加	他往石灰Li3jia1了些水。	He added some water into the lime.
软化	起初她威胁要解雇我们所有的人，但是后来她态度ruan3hua4了。	At first she threatened to dismiss us all, but later she relented.
节拍	两步舞jie2pai1为2／4拍的舞厅舞，其特点是长的滑步	A ballroom dance in2/4 time, characterized by long, sliding steps.
文科	四门高级学科中世纪七个wen2ke1中较高的门类，由几何、天文、算术以及音乐组成	The higher division of the seven liberal arts in the Middle Ages, composed of geometry, astronomy, arithmetic, and music.
欠佳	不受以往辩论形式的拘束，副总统奎尔和民主党的戈尔穷追不舍互相猛烈攻击。结果双方对抗始终活泼生动，常有战斗意味，有进则风度qian4jia1。	Freed from the constraints of the traditional debate format, Vice President Quayle and Democrat Al Gore went after each other with a vengeance, creating a confrontation that was always lively, often combative, occasionally mean-spirited.
伤员	许多shang1yuan2死在去医院的途中了.	Many of the wounded died on their way to hospital.
拉倒	他抓住我的领子把我la1dao3他面前。	He grabbed my collar and pulled me towards him.
内分泌	nei4fen1mi4学研究身体腺体和激素以及他们之间相关的失调的科学	The study of the glands and hormones of the body and their related disorders.
酥	梅子酱由干梅子或杏子做成的甜酱或油su1点心馅	A sweet spread or pastry filling made of prunes or apricots.
凝	水从冷ning2器流出，流入灰浆室。	Water flows from the condenser to the ash room.
泵	那beng4的机件很陈旧了.	The mechanics of the pump are very old.
并存	这两种有关政治行为的理论有差异，但彼此可bing4cun2。	The two theories of political behavior vary, but they are compossible.
不规则	他的脉搏bu4gui1ze2。	His pulse was unsteady.
回击	从一开始他就进行hui2ji1。	He hit back from the beginning.
瓶颈	啤酒瓶底的沉淀物一到ping2jing3部位，就不要往外倒啤酒了。此时你的一杯啤酒会金灿灿地发亮，酒泡鼓出酒杯口，而又不会溢出杯外。	As soon as the sediment starts creeping up the shoulder of the bottle, stop pouring. You should now have a glass of star-bright beer with a head(of foam) that stands proud of the glass but does not overflow.
安于	我宁可an1yu2贫穷，也不愿用不当手段赚钱。	I would rather remain poor than get money by dishonest means.
音乐节	本市每年举行一次夏季yin1yue4jie2。	This city has a music festival every summer.
清洁剂	她试图用qing1jie2ji4来除他短上衣上面的污痕，但搓洗不掉。	The tried to remove the mark from his jacket with a cleaning fluid, but it wouldn't rub out.
东面	日本在中国的dong1mian4。	Japan lies to the east of China.
气派	在这个贫穷的地区，他的贵族qi4pai4显得很可笑。	His aristocratic manners seemed ridiculous in this poor area.
长跑	参加马拉松chang2pao3要有耐力.	Marathon runners need plenty of stamina.
意大利人	在产品设计和质量上, Yi4da4li4ren2大大超过了他们.	In design and quality of manufacture they were outclassed by the Italians.
减价	当地超级市场本周烘豆罐头大jian3jia4。	Baked bean is on offer this week at the local supermarket.
反响	鸟的歌声是曙光从大地fan3xiang3过去的回声。	The bird-song is the echo of the morning light back from the earth.
尽职	考克斯兄弟雇了一个jin4zhi2的鬼魂替他们干了大部分事情，这件事终于变成了公认的事实。	In time, it became an accepted fact that the Cox brothers employed a conscientious ghost that did most of their work for them.
选购	届时尚有最新设计的式样，品种繁多的样品陈列，供你们xuan3gou4。	A great variety of samples, newly designed by our manufacturers, will be on exhibition.
花光	我把赚的钱都hua1guang1了。	I've spent all my earnings.
永存	yong3cun2无穷尽的生命或存在	Endless life or existence.
感染力	他对他的选民表现出很有gan3ran3li4的热情。	He expressed infectious enthusiasm to his voters.
身穿	小酒店里净是shen1chuan1花呢衣服的农民.	The pub was full of tweedy farmers.
搁置	兴建新剧院的计画因资金短缺只好ge1zhi4起来.	The plans for a new theatre have had to be shelved because of lack of money.
所得	他把suo3de2利润的一半交给歹徒作为保护费。	He was paying out half his profits as protection.
听天由命	我将ting1tian1-you2ming4。	I'll accept my fate with resignation.
抹布	我正想洗出一两块ma1bu4。	I just want to wash out one or two rags.
俘获	五百名造反者被fu2huo4并缴了械.	Five hundred rebels were captured and disarmed.
查阅	警方正在cha2yue4类似案件的档案.	The police are trawling (through) their files for similar cases.
吊销	这个司机的驾驶执照被警察diao4xiao1了。	The driver's certificate was suspended by the police.
挨着	一个笨重的、凶恶的脑袋紧ai1zhe5艾尔的脸露出来了。	A heavy, evil head appeared, right next to Al's face.
绞死	擒获布里尔不仅在荷兰历史上而且在世界历史上都应视为一个转折点—一个和攻克巴斯底狱或jiao3si3查理士一世一样的重大事件。	The capture of Brill must rank as a turning-point not only in Netherlands history but in world history: an event of the order of the fall of the Bastille, or the execution of Charles I.
任期	如果请费尔南德斯走路，教育局可以付钱马上终止合约，或是让他做满ren4qi1。费尔南德斯按规定可以在十九万五的年薪之外，还可以领未用病假和其他福利折合现金四十万元。	If Fernandez is shown the door, the board could either buy out his contract immediately or allow him to serve out his term. Fernandez is set to collect$400, 000 in past sick pay and other benefits on top of his$195, 000 salary.
著称	罗马的喷泉以其建筑之美而zhu4cheng1.	The fountains of Rome are famed for their architectural beauty.
红宝石	hong2bao3shi2项链照亮了她的脸庞。	Her ruby necklace brightened her face.
奉命	士兵们feng4ming4举枪致敬.	The soldiers were ordered to present arms.
制造业	该zhi4zao4ye4若不现代化就不能继续存在.	If the industry doesn't modernize it will not survive.
放声	最初她只是微笑，後来才fang4sheng1大笑。	First of all she just smiled, then she started to laugh.
年青	吵闹的nian2qing1人都已从影院被逐出去了。	The noisy youths were ejected from the cinema.
轰炸机	hong1zha4ji1对这港口进行了一次突然袭击。	The bombers made a sudden strike on the harbor.
司令部	我军对敌军的si1ling4bu4发起突然袭击。	Our army descended on the enemy headquarters.
远门	我出了一趟yuan3men2，很疲乏。	I'm tired out. I've had a long journey.
其间	在林肯就职qi2jian1，美国爆发了内战。	The America Civil War was broken out during the presidency of Lincoln.
西洋	Xi1yang2樱草一种杂交的园林樱草，开有由各色花朵组成的花簇	Any of a group of hybrid garden primroses having clusters of variously colored flowers.
好哇	天气多hao3wa1，咱们何不开车到海边玩玩？	It's a lovely sunny day; why don't we run down to the coast?
文本	缩微平片一个缩微胶卷片，能够以缩微形式容纳并储存相当多数量的页数，如一印刷wen2ben3的	A card or sheet of microfilm capable of accommodating and preserving a considerable number of pages, as of printed text, in reduced form.
约克	列车在Yue1ke4又挂上了两节车厢.	Two extra carriages were joined onto the train/joined on at York.
开罗	她需要把阿拉伯语学好才能到Kai1luo2工作.	She needs to perfect her Arabic before going to work in Cairo.
面值	一英镑mian4zhi2的钞票已停止流通.	Pound notes have been withdrawn from circulation.
发言权	我们正考虑在这样的事情上给他们更多的fa1yan2quan2。	We are considering giving them greater say in such matters.
零度	昨夜温度计显示气温下降到ling2du4.	The thermometer fell to zero lastnight.
木匠	mu4jiang5店的地板上满是刨花.	The floor of the carpenter's shop was covered with shavings.
赡养费	shan4yang3fei4按照法庭判决离婚后的原配偶－－通常为夫妻中收入较多的一方给另一方的供养补助。shan4yang3fei4亦可付给并未离婚的双方中的一方，如在合法分居时	An allowance for support made under court order to a divorced person by the former spouse, usually the chief provider during the marriage. Alimony may also be granted without a divorce, as between legally separated persons.
汇集	人群hui4ji2在宫殿的四周。	The crowds concentrated round the palace.
有效期	这些票的you3xiao4qi1只有一个月。	These tickets are available for one month only.
电压	变压器的功用就是把电力从一种dian4ya1改变为加一种dian4ya1。	The function of the transformers is to change electric power from one voltage to another.
模块	在结构分析中，研究形状和格式的科学。此处指对mo2kuai4层次和组织的结构的研究。	In structured analysis, the study of shapes and forms, herein with respect to the structure of modular hierarchies and organizations.
烘干	窑用于加硬，燃烧或hong1gan1物料如谷物、粗粉或粘土的各式的小窑，特指用来焙干或烧陶器的砖砌的窑	Any of various ovens for hardening, burning, or drying substances such as grain, meal, or clay, especially a brick-lined oven used to bake or fire ceramics.
背书	bei4shu1小学生将已准备好的课文口头背出来	Oral delivery of prepared lessons by a pupil.
全班	老师给quan2ban1同学作了听写。	The teacher dictated to the whole class.
噩耗	他得悉e4hao4: 父亲突然去世.	He's had some bad news: his father has died suddenly.
身世	她呜咽着叙述她自己悲哀的shen1shi4。	She sobbed out an account of her sad life.
接线员	拨100找jie1xian4yuan2。	Dial 100 for the operator.
创下	她用一个问答的方式引起她的演讲。这支乐队通过全国巡回演出来chuang4xia4了自己的记录	She followed her lecture with a question-and-answer period. The band followed its hit record with a national tour.
现行	政府的xian4xing2方针後患无穷.	The Government's present course will only lead to disaster.
鞋底	我的xie2di3都断了。	The soles of my shoes are broken.
离家出走	我们不可排除这孩子li2jia1chu1zou3的可能性.	We must not exclude the possibility that the child has run away.
文静	她性情非常wen2jing4.	She is possessed of a wonderfully calm temperament.
所有权	那土地的suo3you3quan2有争议.	The ownership of the land is disputed.
利兹	他从Li4zi1远道而来寻找工作.	He has come all the way from Leeds to look for a job.
招摇	他可以zhao1yao2撞骗闯过任何难关。	He could bluff his way through any difficulty.
本分	法官的ben3fen4是执行法律（主持正义），惟其所行者，却是在拖延（其执行）。	The duty of a judge is to administer justice, but his practice is delay it.
装载	zhuang1zai4吨船舶内部容积单位，等于一百立方英尺	A unit of internal capacity of a ship equal to100 cubic feet.
下列	我们所需要的金属要求具有xia4lie4特性。	The metal we need requires the following particular properties.
航向	横越…的航道穿过（船）的hang2xiang4，航线或路线	Across the course, line, or length of.
薄片	挡板，调节风门一种可调节的bao2pian4，如在熔炉或火炉的通气管中的，用来控制气流	An adjustable plate, as in the flue of a furnace or stove, for controlling the draft.
成份	固有的作为一种基本cheng2fen4或典型特征而存在的；内在的	Existing as an essential constituent or characteristic; intrinsic.
推移	随着时间的tui1yi2，听众越来越多了。	The hearers increased quickly as time went on.
起程	我们在黎明qi3cheng2, 直驶纽约。	We set sail at dawn and headed for New York.
灌木	这些guan4mu4的蔓生枝条该剪了.	These straggly stems should be pruned off the bush.
氢	qing1与氧化合成水.	Hydrogen and oxygen combine/Hydrogen combines with oxygen to form water.
不测	储备金额为预防bu4ce4而存留的资金数额	The amount of funds reserved to meet liabilities.
绳之以法	警方必须竭尽全力追捕罪犯，将他们sheng2zhi1yi3fa3。	The police must do all they can to bring criminals to justice.
战俘	zhan4fu2营中骇人听闻的生活惨状外人是很难完全体验到的.	It's hard to appreciate the full horror of life in a prison camp.
产量	chan3liang4已增加到三倍.	Output has tripled.
纪念碑	ji4nian4bei1的正面是石料做的.	The monument was fronted with stone.
减退	我的力气、 兴趣、 热情等正在jian3tui4.	My strength, interest, enthusiasm, etc is flagging.
师长	我深深感激shi1zhang3与父母.	I owe my teachers and parents a great deal.
大院	那不是深宅da4yuan4, 只不过是个小农舍.	It's not a very grand house, just a little cottage.
朝气	zhao1qi4蓬勃的具有或拥有青年人特点的，如活力、zhao1qi4或热情，与青年人有关	Marked by or possessing characteristics, such as vigor, freshness, or enthusiasm, that are associated with youth.
快门	在照相前，他调整了kuai4men2。	He adjusted the shutter before taking a photo.
巡视	视察，xun2shi4以视察或检查为目的官方性察看，如主教对一主教管区的视察	An official visit for the purpose of inspection or examination, as of a bishop to a diocese.
深远	这项发展对我们的生活有shen1yuan3的影响。	The development had a profound effect on all our lives.
指针	手表有三根zhi3zhen1－－秒针，分针和时针。	A watch have three hand--the second hand, minute hand and hour hand.
羚羊	他瞄准ling2yang2射击, 把它打倒了.	He aimed, fired and brought down the antelope.
津贴	我的一部分jin1tie1被扣去付了饭费。	Part of my allowance is kept back to pay for my meals.
冲走	村庄在水坝决堤时被chong1zou3了。	The village was swept away when the dam burst.
栖息	这些树林里经常qi1xi1着各种鸟类。	These woods are frequented by all kinds of birds.
借给	她提出把汽车jie4gei3我用。	She offered me the loan of her car.
初学者	该学院开设英语速成课程，一年之内将chu1xue2zhe3的英文水平提高到大学入学考试的水平。	The college offers a crash course in English from beginners’ to Entrance Examination level in one year.
中伤	他在火灾zhong4shang1了左手。	He injured his left hand in a fire.
怨气	他利用那机会表达了对主席积压已久的yuan4qi4.	He used the occasion to express all his old grievances against the chairman.
奄奄一息	狐狸倒在血泊中yan3yan3-yi1xi1。	The fox lay dying in a pool of gore.
购置	gou4zhi4武器的开支很大。	The expenditure of money on weapons is very large.
死板	他那难得一见的微笑在他si3ban3的脸上平添一些生气.	A rare smile lit up his stern features.
断层	duan4ceng2地形上的显著变化，如duan4ceng2，深谷	A marked change in topography such as a fault or deep valley.
大麦	农民们正在收割da4mai4。	The peasants are reaping a field of barley.
杂草	za2cao3越来越多，有取代其他植物之势。	Weeds tend to displace other plants.
结巴	这个小男孩因为jie1ba5不敢回答老师的问题。	The boy dare not answer the questions because of his stammer.
得不到	不管他工作多努力, 他就是de2bu5dao4提升。	No matter how hard he works, he can not get a promotion.
伦巴	lun2ba1舞是拉丁美洲的舞蹈.	The rumba is a Latin-American dance.
大一	预算中的最da4yi1项照例是国防费用.	As usual, the lion's share of the budget is for defence.
执政	工党从1964年到1970年zhi2zheng4.	The Labour Party was in government from 1964 to 1970.
遐想	回忆或xia2xiang3指与另一人、物或观点联系在一起的记忆中的或想象的感情、情感、观点或感觉	A remembered or imagined feeling, emotion, idea, or sensation linked to a person, object, or idea.
朗诵	老师给全班同学lang3song4这首诗歌。	The teacher read the poem to the class.
杂乱	自私的野餐者乱扔包装纸使海滩za2luan4不堪	Selfish picnickers litter the beach with food wrappers.
饲料	家禽已经喂过si4liao4了.	The poultry have been fed.
狗熊	洞穴的最深处有只gou3xiong2。	There is a bear in the inmost recesses of the cave.
人情味	新闻记者应不应该有点ren2qing2wei4？	Should the press be human?
温习	去伦敦之前，我必须好好wen1xi2一下英文。	I must brush up my English before I go to London.
过剩	由于guo4sheng4的人力, 这一体制使公司处境不利。	The system puts the firm at a disadvantage because of its overmuch manpower.
群山	自该村望去, qun2shan1之巅清晰可见.	The mountain tops are plainly visible from the village.
钢丝	牙箍安装在牙齿上的纠正不规则排列的由箍带和gang1si1做的牙齿矫正器	A dental appliance, constructed of bands and wires that is fixed to the teeth to correct irregular alignment.
不折不扣	她bu4zhe2-bu4kou4地履行了她的所有诺言。	She carry out all her pledge to the letter.
时针	手表有三根指针－－秒针，分针和shi2zhen1。	A watch have three hand--the second hand, minute hand and hour hand.
学科	她已全面掌握了这一xue2ke1。	She has a comprehensive grasp of the subject.
硕大	柜台上蜷伏着一只shuo4da4的猫。	There was an enormous cat crouching on the counter.
打法	英格兰队如果不改进da3fa3, 就会输掉这场比赛.	Unless England improve their game they're going to lose the match.
送人	我们准备把多余的苹果全部song4ren2。	We are giving away all our surplus apples.
海地	梅伦格舞起源于多米尼加和Hai3di4民间的一种适合在舞厅跳的交际舞，以滑步为特征	A ballroom dance of Dominican and Haitian folk origin, characterized by a sliding step.
笔直	这条路bi3zhi2有好几英里长。	The road ran straight for several miles.
叫唤	我想我听到有人jiao4huan5。	I think I hear that someone cries out.
首脑	这条消息是关於最近的shou3nao3级会议的.	The news is all about the latest summit meeting.
迂回	弯弯曲曲的；yu1hui2的充满弯曲和拐弯的；曲折的	Full of twists and turns; tortuous.
整装待发	他已zheng3zhuang1-dai4fa1要去滑雪了.	He was all kitted out to go skiing.
哀求	｀救救我吧,＇他ai1qiu2道.	`Help me,' he implored.
凹	ao1形，ao1面与浅的ao1型盛食物的容器相似的ao1处	A depression similar to that in a shallow concave container for food.
前兆	乌云是下雨的明显qian2zhao4。	Black clouds are an unmistakable sign of coming rain.
大路	顺着这条da4lu4走，在路的分岔口向右拐。	Follow the main road until it branches, and then turn to the right.
神庙	帕台农shen2miao4是一座宏伟的建筑物.	The Parthenon is a magnificent structure.
四起	城里谣言si4qi3.	Rumours swept through the town.
矿石	矿坑小矿体或kuang4shi2的堆积	A small body or accumulation of ore.
起因	事故往往qi3yin1于粗心。	Accidents often arise from carelessness.
穿行	小汽车的优点是能够在其它车辆间chuan1xing2，并且常常比大客车先到达。	The advantage of a little car is that it can weave through the traffic and often get there faster than the big buses.
早先	这件工作同你zao3xian1的工作相比, 有些令人失望.	Beside your earlier work this piece seems rather disappointing.
长短	她喜欢议论邻居们的是非chang2duan3。	She loves to gossip to her neighbors.
知名度	也许最重要的是，这些选举将使大众认识新面孔，尤其是来自反对党阵营的。这样投石问路将会测如候选人的影响力，建立zhi1ming2du4，并过滤问题。	Perhaps most important, these elections will put new faces before the public, especially from the opposition camp. This testing of the waters will measure the impact of the candidates, build name recognition and sift the issues.
苦笑	他ku3xiao4着回想她。	He thought of her with a rueful smile.
假想	纬线，纬度圈与赤道平面平行且环绕地球用来表明纬度高低的许多jia3xiang3线中的任意一条	Any of the imaginary lines representing degrees of latitude that encircle the earth parallel to the plane of the equator.
气馁	总是受到讥笑使人非常qi4nei3。	It's very discouraging to be sneered at all time.
章节	条款书面文件中的具体zhang1jie2或一系列中的条款，如合同，章程或条约	A particular section or item of a series in a written document, as in a contract, constitution, or treaty.
心绪	没有任何事能扰乱他平静的xin1xu4.	Nothing disturbs his equanimity.
受孕	妇女排卵期不正常就不易shou4yun4.	Women who do not ovulate regularly have difficulty in becoming pregnant.
显出	在夜空的映衬下xian3chu1大树的轮廓。	The huge trees were profiled against the night sky.
装入	把多余的杯子都重新zhuang1ru4箱中.	Repack all the superfluous cups in the box.
循规蹈矩	他的母亲已经把他训练成xun2gui1-dao3ju3的人。	His mother has trained him to be a very proper young man.
哽咽	我给孩子吃药的，大人，""姑娘geng3ye4地说，""老天爷作证，我并没有害人之心。""	I gave the baby the medicine, your honour, "" sobbed the girl. ""But as God is my witness, I meant no harm.""
几何	从高处往下看, 那些农田像是ji3he2图案.	Seen from above, the fields looked like a geometrical pattern.
通气	在那段时间里由于我的鼻子不太tong1qi4，晚上常常醒来感到口里和喉咙干得难受。	Because I couldn't breathe properly through my nose at that time, I used to wake up at night with my mouth and throat as dry as paper.
畅谈	朋友偶尔相聚chang4tan2上学时的大好时光.	The friends met occasionally to chat about the good old days at school.
钳子	钳形的形状象qian2zi5的或与其极为相似的	Shaped like or resembling forceps.
免受	这种植物必须遮起来，mian3shou4阳光直射。	These plants must be sheltered from direct sunlight.
煤矿	mei2kuang4工人都是能吃苦耐劳的.	Coal-miners are a tough breed.
理事会	有多少人在争夺li3shi4hui4的这一席位？	How many people are contesting this seat on the council?
长进	他虽有体验却无zhang3jin4.	He hasn't benefited from (ie become wiser with) the experience.
稳健	选拔委员会选中那位wen3jian4、有保守倾向的候选人。	The selection committee plumped for the safe, conservatively inclined candidate.
恐怖主义	kong3bu4zhu3yi4是整个国家的祸根。	Terrorism is a threat to the whole country.
腾	我每天尽量teng2出一些时间锻炼一下身体.	I try to set aside a few minutes each day to do some exercises.
拷打	他说他受过折磨kao3da3, 从他身上的伤疤看来倒也可信.	The scars on his body lent colour to his claim that he had been tortured.
醇	酒存放得越久越chun2。	Wine improves with age.
断送	他因疏忽大意而duan4song4了前途。	He ruined his prospects by carelessness.
表象	病，疾病有机体的某一部位、某一器官或系统处于病理状态，由各种因素引起，如传染、遗传缺陷或环境紧张，而且以被视为相同的一组biao3xiang4或症状为特征	A pathological condition of a part, an organ, or a system of an organism resulting from various causes, such as infection, genetic defect, or environmental stress, and characterized by an identifiable group of signs or symptoms.
短缺	他们因资源duan3que1处境窘迫.	They were handicapped by (a) poverty of resources.
桂冠	戴gui4guan1的戴以月gui4guan1或饰以月挂作为荣誉标志的	Crowned or decked with laurel as a mark of honor.
应试	主考者评定半数ying4shi4者不及格.	The examiners failed half the candidates.
纪念馆	ji4nian4guan3址已选定在加拿大作为永久的纪念.	The site of the memorial is granted in perpetuity to Canada.
美术馆	她把自己收藏的画借给了mei3shu4guan3。	She loaned her collection of paintings to the gallery.
游说	向议员you2shui4的反核群众声势渐强。	The anti-nuclear lobby is becoming stronger.
轻率	他对该提议qing1shuai4的拒绝激怒了我。	His rash dismissal of the offer annoyed me.
跟头	那孩子翻著gen1tou5从体育馆这头翻到那头.	The child somersaulted across the gymnasium.
精疲力竭	耗尽被损耗的状态；jing1pi2-li4jie2，耗尽	The state of being depleted; exhaustion.
果园	她在guo3yuan2里到处跑。	She ran hither and thither in the orchard.
松树	沿河两岸种着song1shu4。	Pine trees were planted all along the river.
警报器	防盗jing3bao4qi4一响，警卫就放出了警犬。	The guard loosed the dogs when the burglar alarm went off.
议程	yi4cheng2表上的下一项是什么?	What is the next item on the agenda?
录用	马克曾想谋求秘书的职位，但因提出太迟，错过了被考虑lu4yong4的时机。	Mark tried for the post of secretary, but was too late to be considered for it.
跌宕	命运的扭转；die1dang4起伏的故事	A twist of fate; a story with a quirky twist.
愈来愈	部分因为物价高涨，部分因为时机不好，生活真是yu4lai2yu4难过了。	What with the high prices, and what with the badness of the times, we find it hard to get along.
各界	她有财富便於她在社会ge4jie4造成巨大影响。	Her wealth gives her enormous leverage in social circles.
稳固	也许要经过若干年这家新公司才能在市场上取得wen3gu4的立足点。	It may be many years before the new company can gain a secure foothold in the market.
洗劫	成群的士兵xi3jie2了村庄。	Bands of soldiers ravaged the village.
谣传	发动攻击的yao2chuan2後来得到了证实.	The rumours of an attack were later confirmed.
一言不发	珍妮站在他面前，脸色苍白，略微有些颤动，yi1yan2-bu4fa1。	Jennie stood before him, pale, trembling a little, and silent.
月底	借来的钱使他支撑到yue4di3。	The money he borrowed carried him through to the end of month.
感化	她的任务是gan3hua4过去的罪犯。	Her mission was to reclaim former criminals.
喊叫	我好像听见有人han3jiao4.	I thought I heard sb calling.
谷类	粗磨粉gu3lei4植物完全或粗磨的可食用颗粒	The edible whole or coarsely ground grains of a cereal grass.
帆布	这个洞被fan1bu4遮盖住了.	The hole was covered (over) with canvas.
史蒂文	在Shi3di4wen2森教授巡回讲演期间，由琼斯助教全权代表。	During Prof. Stevenson's absence on a lecture tour, Assistant Prof. Jones acted for him.
栽赃	这伙小偷打算在警察来搜查房子时，把偷来的手表zai1zang1到同住的一名房客身上。	The thieves had planned to plant the stolen, watches on a fellow lodger if the police came to search the house.
熄	他的拒绝浇xi1了我们的热情。	His refusal iced our enthusiasm.
仿真	初始设计开发阶段，首先必须发现可能存在的错误，并作相应的设计修改。正是在这个时期中，设计辅助程序、fang3zhen1技术和设计支援技术对于快速设计都是必不可少的。	The initial design development stage wherein, at first, it is certain that errors will be discovered which will require design changes. It is in this period that design aids, emulation techniques, and supportive design techniques are essential to quick design.
容光焕发	突然的微笑使她rong2guang1 huan4fa1。	A sudden smile illuminated her face.
畅饮	我们昨晚chang4yin3了一次酒。	We quaffed wine last night.
钟点	我父亲刚出去散步，但半个zhong1dian3后就要回来。	My father has just gone for a walk, but he'll be back in half an hour.
代名词	不定dai4ming2ci2的。用于代词	Indefinite. Used of pronouns.
收成	好shou1cheng5与坏shou1cheng5交替更迭。	Good harvests alternate with bad.
加之	总之，唯有当严刑峻罚jia1zhi1于违法之徒时，才能维持社会安定。	To sum up, only when strict punishment can be imposed on the lawless, can social stability be maintained.
迁移	被调动或qian1yi2的人或物	One who is transferred.
鼹鼠	yan3shu3在地下挖掘（路）.	The mole bored (its way) underground.
一方面	中国菜在每yi1fang1mian4都是精美的。	Everything about Chinese food is refined.
烟斗	在再装烟丝之前，他磕出了yan1dou3里的烟灰。	He knocked his pipe out before refilling it.
吼叫	这狮子hou3jiao4。	The lion roars.
合乎	他似乎不太he2hu1我们的要求.	He doesn't seem equal to meeting our demands.
复制品	凹版印刷品凹版印刷生产的fu4zhi4pin3	A reproduction produced by gravure.
朝天	儿时，上天向我们撒谎；往后，我们又chao2tian1撒谎。	Heaven lie about us in our infancy-and we lie about heaven later on.
导管	截dao3guan3这种管子的一部分或一段	A section or piece of such a tube.
信贷	有几家银行在xin4dai4方面紧缩起来了。	Some banks tightened up on their credits.
注目	你的zhu4mu4凝视使她感到不自在。	Your intent gaze made her uncomfortable.
秃顶	他讨厌人家影射他tu1ding3.	He resents any allusion to his baldness.
不觉	她穿着睡衣上班却bu4jue2羞耻。	She's quite shameless about wearing pajamas at work.
乡亲	为本城父老xiang1qin1医伤诊病近四十年后，现在，我打算退休，并迁居弗罗里达。	After nearly40 years of patching up the folks of this town, I'm planning to retire and move to Florida.
药方	这是我给你开的yao4fang1。	Here's my prescription.
界线	就像那个说他除了昆虫和民间舞蹈啥都想试试的人一样，我们大多数人心里都有个人jie4xian4，知道该在哪儿收手。	Most of us would draw the line somewhere, like the man who said he'd try anything once except insect and folk dancing.
摊开	他们tan1kai1手脚烤火。	They were sprawled out in front of the fire.
首次	他们在海上十天之後shou3ci4看到陆地.	Their first sight of land came after ten days at sea.
回旋	hui2xuan2使一个做直线运动的物体减速、停滞或倒转的一种旋转，尤指一个球	A spin that tends to retard, arrest, or reverse the linear motion of an object, especially of a ball.
枫叶	feng1ye4是加拿大的象征。	The maple leaf is the emblem of Canada.
剃刀	ti4dao1一滑把我脸给割破了.	The razor slipped and cut my cheek.
英亩	那所房子周围有500ying1mu3起伏不平的草地.	The house stands in 500 acres of rolling parkland.
门廊	我是在教堂的men2lang2处遇到那个人的。	I met that person at the porch of the church.
醉汉	那个zui4han4摇摇晃晃地穿过房间。	The drunk man staggered across the room.
期刊	如果能把这篇文章登在你的qi1kan1上我将很高兴。	I should be glad if you could insert this article into your periodical.
渡轮	火车时刻编排得可与du4lun2运行时刻衔接.	The train is timed to connect with the ferry.
军舰	运兵船由两艘jun1jian4护航。	The troop ship was escorted by two warships.
革新	从他领导后，一个又一个ge2xin1项目出现了。	After being led by him, one innovation after another are showing.
红茶	大吉岭茶一种上等的hong2cha2，尤其生长在印度北部地区	A fine variety of black tea grown especially in the northern part of India.
构想	他是该计画的gou4xiang3者。	He was the conceiver of the plan.
山头	这次爆炸把shan1tou2炸掉了。	The explosion blasted the hill-top off.
忌妒	别让她在你们之间挑拨－－她就是太ji4du5了。	Don't let her make mischief between you she's only jealous.
张力	绳索在zhang1li4之下断了。	The rope broke under the strain.
领口	她用穗带装饰连衣裙的ling3kou3、摺边和袖口.	She braided the neckline, hem and cuffs of the dress.
手肘	你撞到了我的shou3zhou3，弄坏了我正在画的图画。	You jogged my elbow and spoiled what I was drawing.
不单	bu4dan1是树叶, 连个虫子都不动.	Not a leaf nor an insect stirred.
投影	幻灯胶片，电影胶片为静止tou2ying3而准备的含有相片、图表或其它图表性东西的一段胶片	A length of film containing photographs, diagrams, or other graphic matter prepared for still projection.
自然界	这个小岛包含著小而完整的zi4ran2jie4.	This small island contains the whole of nature in microcosm.
以防	他倒了些汁液yi3fang2烤干。	He bastes juices to keep it moist during cooking.
撇开	他既没打电话又没写信，这使她难以pie1kai1由此而产生的一种隐约的担忧心情。	She found it difficult to set aside a vague feeling of anxiety caused by his failure to call or write.
涅	这个凡人叫阿拉喀nie4，她有一手非凡的纺织和刺绣本领，每当这位少女干活儿时就连林中和喷泉中的神女们也都拥来观看。	That mortal was Arachne, a maiden who had attained such skill in the arts of weaving and embroidery that the nymphs themselves would leave their groves and fountains to come and gaze upon her work.
总能	他zong3 neng2和同事们和睦相处。	He can always get on well with his colleagues.
无可救药	我的病是气喘和水肿，还有wu2ke3jiu4yao4的是七十五（岁）。	My disease is an asthma and a dropout and, what is less curable, seventy- five.
何去何从	航运业he2qu4-he2cong2?	Whither (ie What is the likely future of) the shipping industry?
家常便饭	他上学迟到已是jia1chang2 bian4fan4了。	He was late for school, as was often the case with him.
宏大	hong2da4的，雄伟的尺寸、范围或程度大而给人深刻印象的；壮丽雄伟的	Large and impressive in size, scope, or extent; magnificent.
十亿	完成这个工程花费了他们shi2yi4多美元。	It took them more than one billion dollars to complete the project.
篷	沙滩上有许多遮阳peng2。	There are thousands of awnings on the sea beach.
快餐店	该kuai4can1dian4通过出售联营经销权而扩大了生意。	That fast food business have expanded through the sale of franchise.
潜水艇	那艘船是被qian2shui3ting3毁坏的。	The vessel was ruined by a submarine.
买主	他是我们产品的mai3zhu3。	He is a buyer of our products.
吠	【谚】fei4犬不咬人。	Barking dogs seldom bite.
独唱	过去人们围着桌子一起合唱；如今则由于唱得较好这一荒唐的理由，而由一个男子du2chang4了。	Once men sing together round a table in chorus; now one man sing alone for the absurd reason that he can sing better.
暗地里	品德就是自我在an4di4li5独处时的样子。	Character is what we are when we are alone with ourselves in the dark.
挂钩	把你的外衣挂在那个gua4gou1上.	Hang your coat (up) on that hook.
良性	这个肿瘤是liang2xing4的还是癌肿性的?	Is the growth benign or cancerous?
斜坡	他xie2po1滑雪的技能使我们赞叹不已.	We were amazed at his expertise on the ski slopes.
车胎	我自行车的后轮che1tai1没气了。	I got a flat tire of the rear wheel of my bicycle.
多姿多彩	她爱市场上的生趣、喧哗与duo1zi1-duo1cai3。	She loved the life, noise, and color of the market.
电气	当飞机上的灯一下子熄灭时，旅客显得很紧张，但当机长告诉他们这只不过是一次dian4qi4故障，很快就会修好时，他们才放下心来。	The passengers became alarmed when the lights went out on the plane, but the captain put their minds at rest when he told them it was only a minor electrical fault and it would soon be repaired.
停战	双方宣布ting2zhan4以避免再有伤亡。	The two sides called a truce to avoid further bloodshed.
小精灵	这个小女孩太可爱了，我把她叫做xiao3jing1ling2。	The little girl is so lovely that I call her a sprite.
唾沫	他说话说快了就爱喷tuo4mo5星.	He's inclined to spit when he talks quickly.
劳动力	农场里的lao2dong4li4在不断减少。	The farm labour force is running down steadily.
马达	6点钟时ma3da2开动起来。	At six o'clock the motor started up.
湿地	这块shi1di4不够坚实, 不能在上面走.	This wet ground is not firm enough to walk on.
擦洗	我每天至少要把厨房地板ca1xi3一次。	I have to mop the kitchen floor at least once a day.
染色体	倍数性一个细胞中ran3se4ti3基本数目的倍数	A multiple of the basic number of chromosomes in a cell.
迫不得已	我们po4bu4de2yi3去看了那场歌剧.	We were dragooned into going to the opera.
杀虫剂	土壤施用sha1chong2ji4後肥力大增.	The fertility of the soil has been greatly improved by the use of pesticides.
原位	打完电话后，请把听筒放回yuan2wei4。	Please put the receiver back after calling.
脱掉	请帮我tuo1diao4这满是泥浆的靴子。	Please help me to draw off these muddy boots.
即可	你只要出示你的护照ji2ke3。	You have only to show your passport.
汇款	你方是否已收到我方hui4kuan3？	Have you received our remittance?
尼姑	世间的女性，甚至ni2gu1，都情愿失掉贞操也不愿失掉声誉。	Any woman in the world, even a nun, will rather lose her virtue than her reputation.
劳作	机器生产已经代替了手工lao2zuo4.	Work done by machines has replaced manual labour.
同僚	同事同行、职员或学院教工的tong2liao2之一；同事	A fellow member of a profession, a staff, or an academic faculty; an associate.
竞争者	日本公司有能力在发展与生产方面，较美国公司投资为多，是他们在半导体方面占上风的一个主要原因。现在，英泰尔计划在经济不景气时大量投资以压倒弱小jing4zheng1zhe3。	The ability to outspend American companies on development and production has been a big reason Japanese companies have made gains in the semi-conductor business. Now Intel plans to borrow a page from the Japanese by spending heavily through a recession to gain ground on weaker competitors.
紧绷	小孩穿着jin3beng1的靴子很难受。	The child was uncomfortable in his tight boots.
良机	小小蜜蜂多忙碌／利用liang2ji1不放松。	How doth the little busy bee/Improve each shining hour.
签发	会计qian1fa1的一批支票。	The accountant sign a batch of cheque.
老头儿	大家都知道这lao3tou2r5精神有点失常，可是他有些想法听起来并不那么古怪。	Everybody knows the old man's got bats in the belfry, but some of his ideas are not as crazy as they sound.
海港	他来自于一个大型hai3gang3城市。	He came from a large seaport.
矿物	岩石和kuang4wu4都是无机物.	Rocks and minerals are inorganic.
谩骂	她用连珠炮似的man4ma4来攻击他。	She attacked him with a torrent of abuse.
宝剑	他系上bao3jian4.	He girded on his sword.
木制	保龄球道供保龄球滚动的mu4zhi4表面的通道或球道	A wood-surfaced passageway or alley along which a bowling ball is rolled.
展翅	那鸟zhan3chi4飞翔.	The bird extended its wings in flight.
义卖	我得找些零碎东西捐给教堂作yi4mai4.	I must look out some bits and pieces for the church jumble sale.
箭头	跟著地图上的jian4tou2走.	Follow the arrows on the map.
口角	他一干预使他们的kou3jue2达到最激烈程度.	His intervention brought their quarrel to a climax.
人道主义	这位ren2dao4 zhu3yi4科学家呼吁改善穷人的生活条件。	The humanitarian scientist called on the improvement of the poor's living condition.
总量	由渗漏而导致的损失zong3liang4	An amount lost as the result of leaking.
酷刑	施用ku4xing2必为文明社会的人所不齿.	The use of torture must disgust any civilized person.
曲解	历史常为偏见所qu1jie3。	Histories are often warped by biases.
扬声器	低频yang2sheng1qi4设计用来再现低音频率的yang2sheng1qi4	A loudspeaker designed to reproduce bass frequencies.
空运	kong1yun4货物费用十分昂贵。	The transport of goods by air is very expensive.
涉足	他仅仅是she4zu2政治而已。	He just dabbles in politics.
扎根	树苗四周的泥土要好好踏实，使树苗牢牢地zha1gen1。	The soil around the plants should be well trodden down, so that they are firmly rooted.
决断	人类通过自动化扩展了人类神经系统的功能思维和jue2duan4的才能。	He extends his nervous system and his thinking and decision-making faculties through automation.
呆板	她熨衬衣时样子dai1ban3, 不动脑筋.	She was quite mechanical and unthinking in the way she ironed the shirts.
上风	两家互相竞争的纺织公司中，奖金较多，管理较好的一家很快就占了shang4feng1。	Of two rival spinning companies, one is richer and better managed than the other, and therefore soon gets the upper hand.
机关枪	ji1guan1qiang1从隐蔽的阵地开始射击。	Machine guns opened up from a concealed position.
人类学	蒙塔古，阿什利生于1905英裔美国ren2lei4xue2家，其著作如女性的自然优越性（1953年），促进了ren2lei4xue2的普及	British-born American anthropologist whose books, such as The Natural Superiority of Women(1953), helped popularize anthropology.
雅典	Ya3dian3人不介意人家聪明伶俐，只要他只对他自己施展那份聪明伶俐的劲儿就行了。	The Athenians do not mind a man being clever, as long as he keeps it to himself.
视网膜	光度shi4wang3mo2亮度单位，相当于每平方米有一烛光亮度的表面，通过一平方毫米的瞳孔区域，到达shi4wang3mo2的光线数量	A unit of retinal illumination, equal to the amount of light that reaches the retina through 1 square millimeter of pupil area from a surface having a brightness of 1 candela per square meter.
宝库	【谚】知识是bao3ku4，实践是钥匙。	Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it.
报刊	会所决定增加bao4kan1订阅份数.	The club has/have decided to increase subscriptions.
数学家	开普勒，约翰尼斯1571－1630德国天文学家和shu4xue2jia1，被认为是现代天文学的奠基人，他创立了三大定律，说明行星围绕太阳转的理论	German astronomer and mathematician. Considered the founder of modern astronomy, he formulated three laws to clarify the theory that the planets revolve around the sun.
符咒	念咒口头咒语或fu2zhou4的仪式性的吟诵以产生魔力的效果	Ritual recitation of verbal charms or spells to produce a magic effect.
种族歧视	zhong3zu2 qi2shi4问题是政治上的棘手问题.	The racial discrimination issue is a political hot potato.
总得	我zong3dei3想个办法完成任务。	I must fulfil my task by some means or other.
划破	刀刃把他的腿hua2po4了。	The blade slashed his leg open.
击溃	机场附近的战斗持续了一个星期，敌军才被ji1kui4。	The fighting around the airport continued for a week before the enemy was defeated.
担架	救护车工作人员带来了一副dan1jia4抢救那位受伤的女子。	An ambulance officer brought a stretcher for the injured woman.
破绽	po4zhan4，失效可能导致其无效的法律文件的漏洞	A defect in a legal document that can render it invalid.
侦破	警察组成这样一个部门的一群人，他们被专门训练来掌握执行法律和防止并zhen1po4犯罪行为的方法，被授予维护一个社区的和平、安全和秩序的职权	A body of persons making up such a department, trained in methods of law enforcement and crime prevention and detection and given the authority to maintain the peace, safety, and order of the community.
出力	努力，尽力，chu1li4	Exert oneself to do sth.
造访	你若不希望我们的代理人去zao4fang3，请告之。	Should you not wish our agent to call, please let us know.
定金	商店答应, 倘若我付ding4jin1就给我保留这批货.	The shop promised to keep the goods for me if I paid a deposit.
交付	战胜国要求战败国jiao1fu4巨额赔款.	The victorious nations are demanding huge indemnities from their former enemies.
要好	她干的工作比别人yao4hao3些。	Her work is a cut above that of the others.
难得一见	他那nan2de2 yi1 jian4的微笑在他死板的脸上平添一些生气.	A rare smile lit up his stern features.
惟一	傲慢是他的wei2yi1缺点。	Arrogance is the only hole in his coat.
教唆	你在jiao4suo1偷窃.	You are abetting theft.
忠贞	她是一个圣洁的女人，天真而zhong1zhen1。	She was a holy woman, innocent and chaste.
协同	海陆空xie2tong2作战的与陆军和海军联合军事登陆有关的或为此而组织的	Relating to or organized for a military landing by means of combined naval and land forces.
道谢	约翰在离去前特意向女主人dao4xie4。	John made a point of thanking his hostess before his leaving.
进退两难	病人情况危急，因而需要手术，但又无法保证她是否能经受得住麻醉剂，外科医生处于jin4tui4-liang3nan2的境地。	The patient's condition was critical and she needed an operation but there was no guarantee that she would survive the anaesthetic; the surgeon was on the horns of a dilemma.
家产	一只碗，一双筷子就是他的全部jia1chan3。	A bowl and a pair of chopsticks are all the property he has.
里弄	一连串的意外事件把店li3long4得乱七八糟。	A series of accidents disordered the shop.
隆隆	我们听见远处long2long2的雷声。	We heard the thunder growling in the distance.
害处	我们得听一个关於酗酒hai4chu4的冗长报告!	We had to listen to a peroration on the evils of drink!
游手好闲	那个傻孩子从来不做事，只是整天you2shou3-hao4xian2。	That silly child never does anything; he just fools about all day long.
暴乱	大街上突然发生了bao4luan4.	Violence has erupted on the streets.
读物	这样无聊的du2wu4你怎能看得下去!	How can you bear to read such pap!
肝炎	据说那种植物可用来治gan1yan2。	It is said that the plant can be used to treat hepatitis.
回荡	美妙的音乐在我心中hui2dang4。	The beautiful melody is lingering in my mind.
决定性	敌人在一场jue2ding4xing4的战斗中被击败.	The enemy was defeated in a decisive battle.
亮光	liang4guang1招引了很多昆虫.	The light attracted a lot of insects.
撇下	他们pie1xia5我走了, 使我很不痛快.	I was annoyed to find they had left without me.
冗长	我们得听一个关於酗酒害处的rong3chang2报告!	We had to listen to a peroration on the evils of drink!
剖析	事后pou1xi1，事后检讨对已结束事件的分析和回顾	An analysis or review of a completed event.
境遇	无论jing4yu4好坏她的丈夫都对她忠贞不渝.	Her husband stuck by her in good times and bad.
前沿	前线，qian2yan2阵地最靠近敌人的战斗区；前线	The battle area closest to the enemy; the front.
收割	农民们在愉快地shou1ge1庄稼。	The peasants are getting in the crops happily.
铭文	岁月和风雨早已磨掉纪念碑上的ming2wen2。	Time and weather had long ago effaced the inscription on the monument.
穿戴	你千万别chuan1dai4成那样子出去. 那会让你祖母躺在坟里也不得安生.	You can't go out dressed like that. It's enough to make your grandmother turn in her grave!
劳力	合伙契约两个人或多个人签订的法律契约，每个人都同意为一个商业实体出一部分资金和lao2li4，从而每个人都可分享固定比例的一部分利润和承担固定比例的一部分损失	A legal contract entered into by two or more persons in which each agrees to furnish a part of the capital and labor for a business enterprise, and by which each shares a fixed proportion of profits and losses.
风力	feng1li4是按0-12级标准等级测量的。	The force of the wind is measured on a standard scale of 0-12.
牵引	牛和其它qian1yin3重物的动物	Oxen and other draft animals.
浆果	让我们来检查一下jiang1guo3，把梗和叶子拣掉。	Let's pick the berries over for stems and leaves.
毛毛雨	想去mao2mao2yu3里散会儿步吗？	Would you like to go for a walk in the drizzle?
形形色色	不同身份的、xing2xing2se4se4的人都出席了。	Divers persons were present, of all stations in life.
运动服	我有一件红色的有羊毛衬里的yun4dong4fu2。	I have a red tracksuit with fleecy lining.
不朽	让死者有那bu4xiu3的名，但让生者有那bu4xiu3的爱。	Let the dead have the immortality of fame, but the living the immortality of love.
中西部	纽卡斯尔英格兰Zhong1xi1bu4的一个市级自治区，位于斯图克西南偏南。拥有制砖业、制瓦业和纺织服装工业。人口74，200	A municipal borough of west-central England south-southwest of Stoke. It has brick, tile, and clothing industries. Population, 74,200.
愚笨	昨天发生的事故应该归咎于他的yu2ben4。	The accident happened yesterday owed to his foolishness.
三维	正方形是二维的（平面的）, 而正六面体则是san1wei2的（立体的）.	A square is two-dimensional and a cube is three-dimensional.
一头	这是我们的房间，你们的在走廊的那yi1tou2。	This is our room, and yours is down the passage.
新泽西州	霍索恩美国Xin1ze2xi1zhou1东北部一自治村镇，位于帕特森东北偏北。主要为住宅区，有多种轻工业。人口17，084	A borough of northeast New Jersey north-northeast of Paterson. It is primarily residential with varied light industries. Population, 17,084.
同屋	我的tong2wu1比我起得晚。	My roommate gets up later than I do.
山地	边界从北部shan1di4一直延伸到南部海岸.	The frontier ranges from the northern hills to the southern coast.
特务	民兵抓着了一个te4wu5。	The militiamen have caught a spy.
丁香	ding1xiang1盛开着。	The clove is in full bloom.
游击队	火车受到you2ji1dui4的袭击。	The train is attacked by guerilla.
枯竭	久病後他的生命力逐渐在ku1jie2。	His life is slowly draining away after a long illness.
多米诺	经理还没有想出一个适当的举措来减少duo1mi3nuo4效应。	The manager hasn't worked out a suitable action to reduce the domino effect.
逐出	那人被驱zhu2chu1基督教会。	The man was excommunicated from the Christian Church.
殖民	抵抗运动开展了一场反对zhi2min2统治者的恐怖活动。	The resistance movement started a campaign of terror against the colonial rulers.
目送	他mu4song4着列车驶去，直到它成了远方的一个小黑点。	He watched the train away until it was only a dot in the distance.
原著	这部小说已由俄文yuan2zhu4改编成无线电广播节目。	This novel has been adapted for radio from the Russian original.
退场	我们的首席代表的tui4chang3被看作是一种抗议的表示。	Our chief representative's withdrawal was construed as a protest.
疗养	玛丽的父亲动手术后需要长期在liao2yang3院休养。	Mary's father had to stay in a rest home for a long time after his operation.
耳语	她把我拉到一旁，对我er3yu3。	She drew me aside and whispered in my ear.
在行	他把包放zai4hang2李架上。	He put his bag on the luggage rack.
初始	验证协议的程序，它从一个给定的chu1shi3状态机械地产生出一切可以到达的状态，并且审查每一状态下用户定义的条件的有效性。	A program for protocol verification which mechanically generates all states reachable from a given initial state and checks the validity of user defined conditions in each state.
穷困	尽管他的祖父是贵族，他却非常qiong2kun4。	Although his grandfather was a nobleman, he was very poor.
困苦	一个坚强的人会忍受kun4ku3而不抱怨。	A strong man will bear hardship without complaining.
侵权	针对人或财产的民事不规行为称之为“qin1quan2”。	Civil wrong against persons or property is called""torts"".
休止	他无xiu1zhi3地争论。	He made an interminable argument.
打雷	我的小狗一听到da3lei2就藏到床底下。	My little dog always hides under the bed when it thunders.
溶化	热咖啡能把糖rong2hua4了.	The hot coffee melts the sugar.
安生	你千万别穿戴成那样子出去. 那会让你祖母躺在坟里也不得an1sheng1.	You can't go out dressed like that. It's enough to make your grandmother turn in her grave!
办公楼	我们已租了一幢ban4gong1lou2。	We've taken a lease on an office building.
敲击	小手鼓一种用手qiao1ji1的鼓，连结在一起声调和谐的一对中的一个	One of a pair of connected tuned drums that are played by beating with the hands.
亚麻	ya4ma2籽油可以食用吗？	Is linseed oil edible?
围住	他用一只手臂wei2zhu4她做出保护的姿势。	He put his arm round her in a protective gesture.
令人	发现鸡尾酒会ling4ren2反感	Found cocktail parties distasteful.
引人注意	醒目的yin3ren2zhu4yi4的和给人深刻印象的；引人注目的	Attracting and holding the attention; striking.
南希	她们另外见了一次以后，Nan2xi1觉得戈尔巴乔夫太太是一个不折不扣的共产党，""一位友人回忆说，""她总要宣传教条。""	After their other meeting, Nancy felt that Mrs. Gorbachev was a Communist through and trough, "" a friend recalled, ""and that she just wanted to spout doctrine.""
老练	发起人安排这位年轻的拳击选手同一位更lao3lian4的拳击手比赛。	The promoters matched the young boxer with a more skillful fighter.
别有	这些bie2you3风味的小蛋糕是该地的特产。	These small spiced cakes are a peculiarity of the region.
爆裂	这灯泡是向内侧bao4lie4的.	The light bulb imploded.
聚首	偶然的相遇使两位老朋友重新ju4shou3。	A chance meeting brought the two old friends together again.
听讲	有相当多的人来ting1jiang3.	Quite a few people came to the lecture.
公费	政府计画严格限制今年gong1fei4开支.	The government plans to set strict limits on public spending this year.
猜忌	山姆对他的妻子很cai1ji4，因为她很漂亮。	Sam is very jealous of his wife, as she is very pretty.
走道	zou3dao4人可以在上面行走的地方，如人行道或散步场所	A place, such as a sidewalk or promenade, on which one may walk.
球门	他们有三个队员防守qiu2men2.	They had three players defending the goal (against attack).
小河	夏天那条xiao3he2的水量减少，成了涓涓溪流。	The stream is reduced to a mere trickle in summer.
天体	太阳，星星和月亮都是tian1ti3。	The sun, the stars and the moon are celestial bodies.
水星	我们太阳系的行星有Shui3xing1、金星、地球、火星、木星、土星、天王星和海王星。	The planets of our solar system are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.
拍子	双pai1zi5的每小节含有两拍或偶数拍的	Consisting of two or a multiple of two beats to the measure.
平行线	谱线五线谱上五条ping2xing2xian4中的一条	One of the five parallel marks constituting a staff.
用人	礼拜仪式倡yong4ren2运用或提倡运用礼拜仪式的人	One who uses or advocates the use of liturgical forms.
若是	我们当初ruo4shi4稍微再多考虑一下, 也许就能买到我们真正想要的房子了.	With a little more forethought we could have bought the house we really wanted.
自始至终	那会议zi4 shi3 zhi4 zhong1十分无聊.	The meeting was one big yawn from start to finish.
海岛	那艘损坏的船只在hai3dao3沿岸航行以寻找港口。	The disabled ship coasted the island, looking for a harbor.
盛会	彩旗给这次sheng4hui4增添了欢乐的气氛.	The colourful flags added to the gaiety of the occasion.
窥探	他kui1tan4著四周，直至见到警察走开。	He skulked around outside until the police had gone.
刺刀	那个法西斯士兵把ci4dao1刺入那人的身体。	The fascist soldier thrust his bayonet into the man's body.
我方	现在是wo3fang1炮兵回击敌人的时候了。	It's time for our artillery to hit back.
多种	牛心形樱桃培育出来的大而甜的duo1zhong3樱桃，多汁水果	A variety of cultivated cherry having sweet, juicy fruit.
户头	这个hu4tou2为你提供了一个现成的收入来源.	This account provides you with a ready source of income.
培	他给芹菜pei2上了土.	He earthed up the celery.
录像机	那老太太想开lu4xiang4ji1, 但是越搞越糊涂.	The old lady gets in(to) a muddle trying to work the video.
漠视	这个官员对穷人的需求表现出完全mo4shi4的态度。	The official has shown a total disregard for the needs of the poor.
推车	他推着手tui1che1沿路走过。	He trundled a wheelbarrow down the path.
显赫	他的妻子琼是一个健壮、浅薄的女人，也是孩子们随和的母亲。当她一听说自己高贵的地位时，便立刻想入非非，暗自打算为她的年轻漂亮的女儿找一个xian3he4、门当户对的婆家。	And no sooner had Joan, his handsome, shallow-minded wife, the easy-going mother of his many children, heard of her exalted estate than her romantic soul began secretly to devise a brilliant and fitting alliance for her beautiful young daughter.
危难	这次wei1nan4是对他的勇气和技能的考验。	The crisis put his courage and skill to the test.
混入	在翻地时应把肥料均匀地hun4ru4土壤中.	The manure should be well dug in.
历年	他说他的工会——运输工会504分会——li4nian2来在合约上做了“极大的让步”以协助泛美［航空公司］纾解财务困难。“结果全然没用，”他哀伤地说。	He said his union, Local504 of the Transport Workers Union, made""massive contract givebacks"" over the years to help Pan Am with its financial troubles.""It was all to no avail, "" he lamented.
手足无措	她面临可能早逝而shou3-zu2 wu2cuo4.	She's finding it difficult to face up to the possibility of an early death.
举措	经理还没有想出一个适当的ju3cuo4来减少多米诺效应。	The manager hasn't worked out a suitable action to reduce the domino effect.
逐个	医生zhu2ge4检查，看孩子们是否患近视眼。	The doctor examined every child for possible short sight.
只管	你不知道. 你zhi3guan3猜!	You don't know. You're just guessing!
匪徒	屋子里的东西被fei3tu2们洗劫一空。	The bandits made off with everything in the house.
皮疹	pi2zhen3搔後会恶化.	Scratching exacerbates a skin rash.
奖状	奖品，jiang3zhuang4称赞的某事，特别是官方的奖品或jiang3zhuang4	Something, especially an official award or citation, that commends.
骗取	她用阿谀奉承的手段pian4qu3他的信任.	She used flattery to worm her way/herself into his confidence.
辍学	每年都有一些修这门速成课的学生觉得课程负担太重而于圣诞节前chuo4xue2的。	In any year some of the students on this crash course find the pace too hot for them and drop out before Christmas.
奖牌	英国把获得jiang3pai2的希望寄托在奥维特的身上.	British hopes of a medal rested on Ovett.
不愉快	他不谈论这个令人bu4yu2kuai4的话题，而去谈论别的事情。	He dismissed the unpleasant subject and talked about something else.
吹毛求疵	基蒂对我们抚育孩子的方式一向chui1 mao2 qiu2 ci1，但是她当了母亲之后，就开始改变她的腔调了。	Kitty used to be very critical of the way we raised our children, but when she became a mother herself she began to change her tune.
弯弯	街道曲曲wan1wan1的, 把我们弄得迷失了方向.	We were quite disorientated by the maze of streets.
字样	在绝密档案上标有｀只供总统亲阅＇zi4yang4.	The top secret file was marked For the President's eyes only'.
山脚	他们在shan1jiao3下支起了帐篷。	They erected their tent at the foot of the mountain.
训斥	校长xun4chi4了那些男生.	The headmaster gave the boys a scolding.
歌剧院	她把新ge1ju4yuan4称作｀那讨厌的庞然大物＇.	She calls the new opera house that hideous erection'.
狂野	这些kuang2ye3的年轻人什么都不尊重。	Nothing is sacred to these wild youths.
模子	金属铸模金属锭在其中被铸的mu2zi5	A mold in which such metal is cast.
咚咚	演出快进行到最惊险的部分时响起了dong1dong1的鼓声.	A drum roll preceded the most dangerous part of the performance.
茬	哟，大人，你想找我cha2，是吗？	Oh, Lord, are you going to get on my back?
热潮	在加利福尼亚州发现金矿一事掀起了一场淘金者蜂拥而至的re4chao2。	The discovery of gold in California set off a rush to get there.
北约	Bei3yue1对这个独立的国家的侵略是对人权的野蛮侵犯。	NATO's invasion of this independent country is a brutal violation of human rights.
罗素	他住在luo2 su4广场95号.	He lives at No 95 Russell Square/Sq.
焊	他把金属丝重新han4上去了。	He soldered the wire back on.
政变	被压迫的人民，在zheng4bian4之后获得自由。	The oppressed were free after the coup.
精力充沛	青年人通常比老年人jing1li4 chong1pei4些。	Young people usually have more energy than the old.
直流	我们闻到厨房里的香味zhi2liu2口水.	The delicious smell from the kitchen made our mouths water.
分支	fen1zhi1指令由这种控制传递方式的结果而执行的指令	The instructions executed as the result of such a passing of control.
撕破	别那麽使劲扯书页，那会si1po4的。	Don't pull the pages so hard or they will tear.
缺憾	她觉得没有汽车并非重大que1han4.	She didn'tfind the lack of a car any great privation.
心悸	一想到要会见总统就足以令人xin1ji4.	The prospect of meeting the President is quite daunting.
商议	工资问题可shang1yi4解决.	The salary is negotiable.
失信	交割shi1xin4在股票或抵押品售出后，未能在规定日期内办理交接手续	Failure to receive the proceeds of a transaction, as in the sale of stock or securities, by a specified date.
党派	这是某dang3pai4选举前的政治广播节目。	Here is a political party broadcast before an election.
钱币	父亲在花园里掘出一枚古qian2bi4。	Father dug up an old coin in the garden.
论点	我能驳倒他的lun4dian3。	I was able to refute his argument.
乐曲	yue4qu3接近高潮。	The music approached a climax.
物理学	他的wu4li3xue2得很好。	He does well in physics.
胡来	别hu2lai2, 放规矩点!	Stop farting around and behave yourself!
基调	她友好的开幕词确定了整个会议的ji1diao4。	Her friendly opening speech set the tone for the whole conference.
窃贼	那qie4zei2听到他们汽车的声音就从窗口逃走了.	When the burglar heard their car he hopped it out of the window.
专横	他行事zhuan1heng4, 我们大家都讨厌他这种作风.	He domineered, and the rest of us hated it.
逐一	我们zhu2yi1光顾了城里所有的酒店.	We did/went the rounds of all the pubs in town.
马马虎虎	我要把原有的油漆全部铲去，并要涂上新的内涂层和上光剂。我要彻底地干一下，决不ma3ma3hu1hu1。	I want all the existing paint stripped off and new undercoat and gloss applied. I want a thorough job, with no half measures.
冲撞	飞机著陆时, 乘客感到猛烈的chong1zhuang4.	The passengers felt a violent bump as the plane landed.
癖好	任性的具有或以任性为特征的，通常与为了满足某人自己的冲动或pi3hao4所期待、盼望或要求的完全相反	Given to or marked by willful, often perverse deviation from what is desired, expected, or required in order to gratify one's own impulses or inclinations.
版面	一页ban3mian4为在一面印刷的ban3mian4设置	The type set for printing one side of a leaf.
助教	zhu4jiao4学校中的助理教员	An assistant teacher in a school.
长者	对投资期限较zhang3zhe3可获百分之二的奖励.	A premium of 2 per cent is paid on long-term investments.
热切	玛丽和我re4qie4盼望晚会的举行。	Mary and I are looking forward very much to the party.
全神贯注	我们quan2shen2 guan4zhu4地倾听她讲的惊人故事。	We listened to her amazing story with rapt attention.
资料库	从zi1liao4ku4借磁带是退而求其次的办法。	Borrowing tapes from the library would be the next-best thing.
精巧	灵巧的在设计和功能方面巧妙而复杂的；jing1qiao3的	Ingenious and complex in design or function; intricate.
作画	我开始zuo4hua4，仅仅是最近的事情。	It is only recently that I started painting.
起先	我所问的那个家伙qi3xian1一声也不响，上下打量我，注意到我衣衫褴褛，然后他说：“稍等一会儿。”	The fellow I spoke to made no answer at first, looked me up and down, noticed that I was almost in rags, then said,"" Just a minute.""
下边	主人举起鞭子时，狗抖缩在桌子xia4bian5。	The dog cowered under the table when his master raised the whip.
跟不上	几个孩子gen1bu5shang4父母的步子，落在后面。	A few young children are straggling along behind their parents.
山脊	山口，隘口两个山峰间的通路或者shan1ji3上的裂口	A pass between two mountain peaks or a gap in a ridge.
叛国罪	卖国者，叛徒背叛某人的祖国、事业或辜负信任的人，尤指犯pan4guo2zui4的人	One who betrays one's country, a cause, or a trust, especially one who commits treason.
害虫	蝗虫是一种hai4chong2。	A locust is a kind of destructive insect.
难以忍受	她心情沉重得nan2yi3ren3shou4。	Her grief is a heavy load to bear.
编制	当时公司的bian1zhi4正处於不稳定状态.	Organization of the company was then in a state of flux.
逃窜	敌兵纷纷tao2cuan4，听任后面的人遭殃。	The enemy soldiers fled and let the devil catch the hindmost.
遮盖	今晚大概会有霜冻，一定要把花草都zhe1gai4好。	It may freeze tonight, so make sure the plant should be covered.
省得	及时补一针，sheng3de5补九针。	A stitch in time saves nine.
微生物	流胶现象，流胶病某些植物上，如甘蔗及一些果树，形成胶质斑块的病理现象，由病虫害、wei1sheng1wu4或恶劣的气候条件侵袭而引起	The pathological formation of patches of gum on certain plants, such as sugar cane and some fruit trees, resulting from attack by insects, microorganisms, or adverse weather conditions.
大虾	da4xia1；巨型喷气式飞机	Jumbo shrimp; a jumbo jet.
大病	幸亏他体质好，杰克才得以平安度过了最近这场da4bing4。	Thanks to his strong constitution, Jack was able to pull through his recent serious illness.
不一	房间是用深浅bu4yi1的蓝色粉刷的。	The room was painted in various shades of blue.
放大镜	用fang4da4jing4把阳光聚到乾叶子上, 叶子就能燃烧.	If you focus the sun's rays through a magnifying glass on a dry leaf, it will start to burn.
连衣裙	她把lian2yi1qun2放在床上以保持平整。	She laid her dress on the bed to keep it neat.
定价	这些油田产的油以美元ding4jia4.	Oil from these fields is priced in dollars.
逃学	这三个学生又tao2xue2了。	These three students played truant again.
劝告	学生们接受老师的quan4gao4。	The students take the admonition from their teacher.
客机	恐怖分子扬言要炸毁劫持的ke4ji1。	The terrorists are threatening to blow up the hijacked airliner.
圆润	教士那yuan2run4低沉的声音在教堂里回响。	The sonorous voice of the priest resounded in the church.
课外	他对学校ke4wai4活动一点也不积极。	He doesn't take an active part in many school activities.
貌美	我认为她是健美而不是mao4mei3.	I would describe her as handsome rather than beautiful.
渣滓	zha1zi3都沉到瓶底了.	The dregs have settled at the bottom of the bottle.
秀丽	她以其xiu4li4的书法而使我惊异。	She astonished me with her beautiful handwriting.
坐落	这个饭店zuo4luo4在优美的高山湖畔，四周洋溢着浪漫的气氛。	The hotel has a very romantic atmosphere, set on the bank of a beautiful mountain lake.
述说	他毫无保留地（直言不讳地）shu4shuo1了他在监狱中的事.	He spoke without reserve (ie freely) of his time in prison.
聘用	我们不想pin4yong4没有经验的工人。	We don't want to hire inexperienced worker.
一去不复返	华侨像孤儿的那种日子已经yi1 qu4 bu4 fu4 fan3了。	The days when the overseas Chinese were like orphans are gone forever.
命题	换质法推导一个ming4ti2的方法	Inference of the obverse of a proposition.
恶感	必须把一切e4gan3在发展成公开对抗之前，就消灭于萌芽状态之中。	Any ill-feeling has to be nipped in the bud before it develops into open revolt.
答卷	老师正在审阅汤姆的英语da2juan4。	The teacher is reading Tom's English paper.
病院	精神bing4yuan4常雇用男护士护理精神病人.	Male nurses are often employed in hospitals for the mentally ill.
毒液	du2ye4的输入du2ye4输入动物的细胞组织	Introduction of a venom into animal tissue.
通电话	据悉，在审理戈蒂时，格拉瑟对联邦调查局、检察官、被告律师以及媒体毫不客气。他打了好几tong1 dian4hua4给塞申斯，要他必须查出《每日新闻》的消息来源。	Glasser, who rode roughshod over the FBI, prosecutors, defense lawyers and the press during the Gotti trial, made a series of telephone calls to Sessions demanding that the sources for The News story be found, sources said.
海王星	我们太阳系的行星有水星、金星、地球、火星、木星、土星、天王星和Hai3wang2xing1。	The planets of our solar system are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.
燃油	我买汽车时总要把ran2you2消耗量考虑在内.	I always take fuel consumption into consideration when buying a car.
苦海	人生，再好也不过是汪洋ku3hai3罢了。	Life is, at best, a sea of trouble.
花盆	我把一棵花种到了新买的hua1pen2里。	I potted up a flower in the newly bought flowerpot.
深信不疑	我对他的诚实shen1xin4bu4yi2。	I am convinced of his honesty.
回响	教士那圆润低沉的声音在教堂里hui2xiang3。	The sonorous voice of the priest resounded in the church.
儿戏	法院匆促做出的不公正裁决使这次审判形同er2xi4.	The unfair and hasty decision of the court made a mockery of the trial.
原件	我比较了复印件和yuan2jian4，但是差别不是很大。	I compared the copy with the original, but there was not much difference.
身分	那个新闻工作者不想透露消息提供人的shen1fen4。	The journalist did not want to reveal the identity of his informant.
间隙	空隙，jian4xi4允许自由运动所介入的空间或距离，如在机器零件之间的	An intervening space or distance allowing free play, as between machine parts.
解毒剂	jie3du2ji4一种药物复合剂，以前用于解毒	A medicinal compound formerly used as an antidote for poison.
愚人	她情愿玩玩蜜蜂也不愿与yu2ren2为伍。	She will rather fool with a bee than being with a fool.
成见	别抱cheng2jian4，这些新制度早晚会被人们接受。	Please keep an open mind, The new rules will be accept sooner or later.
饥荒	千千万万的人死于ji1huang5。	Thousands of people died of famine.
奇观	我相信那成群女人们的服装颜色一定是一种华丽的qi2guan1，我会百看不厌的。	I am certain that the colors of women's dresses moving in a throng must be a gorgeous spectacle of which I should never tire.
年迈	每个星期五下班后，他去看望nian2mai4的父母。	He comes to visit his aged parents after work on every Friday.
应验	我所猜测的都ying4yan4了.	I was right in my conjectures.
转入	我们前面的那辆汽车突然zhuan3ru4左边的小路上去了.	The car in front of us suddenly branched off to the left.
生物学	他仍然钻研他的sheng1wu4xue2。	He still worked at his biology.
晶体	全面的，全对称晶形的具有在给定的jing1ti3系统中全面对称的全部平面的	Having as many planes as required for complete symmetry in a given crystal system.
兵营	检阅官方对bing1ying2或部队的检查或考察	Official examination or review, as of barracks or troops.
弊	考试作bi4必予追究.	If you cheat in the exam you'll never get away with it.
可敬	他的行为表明他是ke3jing4的。	His conduct speaks him honorable.
口吻	他语气中带有威胁的kou3wen3。	A tone of menace entered into his voice.
古板	我的老姨妈都很gu3ban3.	My old aunts are very strait-laced.
暴跌	一有贬值的消息，股票价格就bao4die1了。	Share price plummet or plunge on the news of the devaluation.
哥伦布	早期的探险家可能在Ge1lun2bu4之前已发现美洲.	Earlier explorers probably anticipated Columbus's discovery of America.
自信心	你太畏缩了--要尽量增强zi4xin4xin1.	You're too timid you must try to assert yourself more.
为伍	[谚]与狗同眠的人必然惹一身跳蚤；同坏人wei2wu3必然吃亏。	He that lies down with dogs must rise up with fleas.
雌性	一雄多雌（配合）在一个交配季节里，一个雄性个体与一个以上的ci2xing4个体进行交配的一种交配方式	A mating pattern in which a male mates with more than one female in a single breeding season.
看做	少女大约到18岁时开始社交，通常要为她们举办盛大聚会，从此以后她们就被kan4zuo4是成人了。	In society, girls come out when they reach the age of about eighteen, and usually it is at a big party in their honor; after that they are looked on as adults.
患病	他的huan4bing4给我们的计划带来灾难。	His illness was fatal to our plan.
搞鬼	尽管杰拉尔德主动提供全力支持，但我仍不由得感觉到他在背地里gao3gui3。	Although Gerald offered his wholehearted support, I can't help feeling he's playing some deep game of his own.
不只	她bu4zhi3能说德国话也能说法国话。	She can speak not only German but also French.
焚	和尚在香炉里fen2上一柱香。	The monk burned a stick of incense in the incense burner.
野牛	100年前，北美有大量的ye3niu2。	There were lots of buffaloes in the North America 100 years ago.
渔船	港湾里有许多yu2chuan2。	There are some fishing vessels in the harbor.
免除	法官mian3chu2了他们在这些事上的所有责任和义务。	The judge exempted them from all liability in these matters.
造句	老师让那个学生用这个字zao4ju4。	The pupil was told to make a sentence with this word.
水域	冰间湖由海水冰围成的一块开阔的shui3yu4	An area of open water surrounded by sea ice.
遵照	他zun1zhao4医生的劝告而行。	He acted on his doctor's advice.
爱丁堡	Ai4ding1bao3在伦敦北面很远的地方。	Edinburgh is a long way north of London.
目中无人	自从她在学校里获奖以来，她就一直mu4zhong1 wu2 ren2，不愿与别的女孩子说话。	Since she won a prize at school she's been going about with her nose in the air and refusing to talk to the other girls.
犯病	我的左膝一到阴湿天气就fan4bing4。她的关节炎又犯了	My left knee acts up in damp weather. Her arthritis is acting up again.
涂料	再搀些白颜料使tu2liao4浅些。	Mix some more white in to make the paint pal.
房主	市政会向fang2zhu3施加了压力, 促使其改善房子的居住条件.	The council brought pressure to bear on the landlord to improve his property.
水痘	shui3dou4是一种常见的儿童期疾病。	Chicken pox is a common childhood sickness.
失职	经过长时间调查后，撤消了对经理shi1zhi2罪的指控，并免除了他对导致工厂烧毁的失火事故的责任。	After a long inquiry, the Manager was exonerated from the charge of neglect and from any responsibility for the fire that destroyed the factory.
远足	我不知不觉被拉来参加了这次yuan3zu2旅行。	I was roped in for this excursion before I knew it.
归结	增加税收gui1jie2起来将造成很多困难.	The tax increases will, in the aggregate, cause much hardship.
付钱	他们履行合同后，我才fu4qian2。	I withheld payment until they had fulfilled the contract.
方形	fang1xing2物或fang1xing2地区大致呈正fang1xing2或正方体的地区、空间或物体	An approximately square or cubic area, space, or object.
播音	为我的bo1yin1，我必须学点音乐史。	I have to work up the history of music for my broadcast.
平地	我对不公ping2di4被解雇表示愤慨。	I expressed my indignation at being unfairly dismissed.
听信	然而，其他的同事们却ting1xin4了青年就业新闻发布官员的那一番明智的劝告。	And the rest of the fellows fell for the Youth Employment Officer's words of wisdom.
末端	尖端一个带尖或突起的物体的mo4duan1	The end of a pointed or projecting object.
参战	在上次战争中他在北非战役can1zhan4.	He fought in the N African campaign during the last war.
面熟	我见希尔夫人mian4shu2, 但并不相识.	I know Mrs Hill by sight, but we've never met.
乐章	第一yue4zhang1以缓慢的主旋律开始.	A slow theme introduces the first movement.
霉菌	霉，mei2jun1通常在植物或多种有机物表面形成白色生长物的菌类中的一种	Any of various fungi that form a superficial, usually whitish growth on plants and various organic materials.
扣除	不kou4chu2的不kou4chu2的，尤指为所得税的目的而不kou4chu2的	Not deductible, especially for income-tax purposes.
巡查	巡道工，护路员受雇保养或xun2cha2铁道的工人	A worker employed to maintain or inspect railroad tracks.
小船	xiao3chuan2一种小划艇，尤指从船到岸渡运供应品	A small rowboat, especially one used to ferry supplies from ship to shore.
下一代	我们应该对xia4yi1dai4负责。	We should be responsible for the generation as yet unborn.
未能	我因有约在先，所以wei4neng2参加这个会。	I was unable to attend the meeting because of a prior engagement.
起重机	千斤顶，qi3zhong4ji1通过杠杆、螺丝钉或水的压力把重物提起的便携式装置	A usually portable device for raising heavy objects by means of force applied with a lever, screw, or hydraulic press.
结出	树木能jie1chu1果实.	Trees bring forth fruit.
大树	da4shu4小树都已长出嫩芽.	The trees and hedgerows are in bud.
何谓	我已决心应该让我的孩子们在他们的父亲的宗教里抚养成人，倘使他们能够了解he2wei4“宗教”的话。	I am determined my children shall be brought up in their father's religion, if they can find out what it be.
染色	那位生物学家先把标本ran3se4, 然後再通过显微镜进行观察.	The biologist stained the specimen before looking at it through the microscope.
茶具	完整的cha2ju4是在十八世纪发展起来的。	Complete tea services were developed in the 18th century.
鼓鼓	她把枕头弄得gu3gu3的.	She plumped up the pillows.
阀	我出门之前，把煤气的总fa2关掉了。	I turned the gas off at the mains before I went out.
几点	要使这份报告包括最新资料，我仅有ji3 dian3事实需补充。	I have only a few additional facts to add to bring the report up to date.
院校	必须具备大专yuan4xiao4的学位才能从事这一级的工作.	A degree is prerequisite for employment at this level.
蛤	水产养殖在控制条件下，科学、艺术及商业性培植海水或淡水食用鱼或介壳类，如牡蛎、ha2、鲑及鳟鱼	The science, art, and business of cultivating marine or freshwater food fish or shellfish, such as oysters, clams, salmon, and trout, under controlled conditions.
乘机	现在，我们应cheng2ji1反攻。	We should seize the opportunity to counterattack.
照例	在这期间，随着岁月的流逝，他的生活也zhao4li4跟着起了变化。	In the meanwhile, time did not roll on without effecting his usual changes.
崩塌	这次地震把这堵墙震得下陷并开始beng1ta1.	The earthquake made the wall sink and start to crumble.
真实性	该报告毫无zhen1shi2xing4。	There is not a vestige of truth in the report.
行军	士兵们以xing2jun1的步伐走了过去。	The soldiers went past on the march.
接班人	我确信他是个可靠的jie1ban1ren2。	I am sure that he is a reliable successor.
牛犊	肥畜养肥备宰的幼畜（如羊羔、niu2du2）	A young animal, such as a lamb or calf, fattened for slaughter.
什锦	这盘菜配有shi2jin3泡菜.	The dish was accompanied by a variety of pickles.
有种	他对生活you3zhong3成熟的看法。	He has a mellow attitude to life.
凸	圆tu1线一种窄的tu1圆造型	A narrow, convex molding.
奋起	最后公民们fen4qi3反抗残忍的统治者们，将他们逐出国，并夺取了政权。	The citizens at last rebelled against their cruel rulers, drove them from the country and took power themselves.
惊异	他居然还活著使她感到jing1yi4.	She was amazed/It amazed her that he was still alive.
大发雷霆	这个消息万一传到她的耳朵里，她一定得da4 fa1 lei2ting2。	If this news ever reaches her ears, she'll be furious.
匮乏	工农业生产停滞不前，粮食kui4fa2，更为糟糕的是，中央政府已完全不复存在。	Agriculture and industry are at a standstill. Food is scarce and to crown it all, there is no central government in being.
撞倒	他故意把那个老人zhuang4dao3。	He knocked the old man down on purpose.
潜水员	qian2shui3yuan2水下工作者，尤指配有呼吸器和加重衣服的水下工作者	One that works under water, especially one equipped with breathing apparatus and weighted clothing.
教派	许多人皈依他们父母所属的jiao4pai4。	Many people adhere to the church of their parents.
猛地	那狗正在睡觉, 听到有人唤它, meng3de5惊醒过来.	On hearing his name called the sleeping dog sprang to life.
专科	过敏症专家过敏症诊断和治疗的zhuan1ke1医生	A physician specializing in the diagnosis and treatment of allergies.
洗衣粉	我们的新型xi3yi1fen3顾客都很满意, 成千上万的人不可能都错了, 您也不妨试一试好吗?	Thousands of satisfied customers can't be wrong, so why don't you try our new washing-powder?
窘迫	他们因资源短缺处境jiong3po4.	They were handicapped by (a) poverty of resources.
受难	从圣坛窃取耶稣shou4nan4像是亵渎神灵的行为.	It is (a) sacrilege to steal a crucifix from an altar.
私心	你要是以为我是出於si1xin1, 那你就冤枉我了.	You wrong me if you think I only did it for selfish reasons.
全景	我们从悬崖顶上的高处能看到城市的quan2jing3。	From our perch up there on top of the cliff we can see the whole town.
西南部	美国xi1nan2bu4的低矮的砖坯建筑物	The low, brick-and-adobe architecture of the Southwest.
真菌	抗zhen1jun1的，杀zhen1jun1的破坏或抑制zhen1jun1生长的	Destroying or inhibiting the growth of fungi.
看家	他们俩都外出工作, 雇了个保姆kan1jia1.	They both go out to work and have a nanny living in.
了事	她对每一个建议都不接受，只是双肩一耸，眉毛一抬liao3shi4。	She brushed off every suggestion with a shrug and raised eyebrows.
深浅	房间是用shen1qian3不一的蓝色粉刷的。	The room was painted in various shades of blue.
座谈会	在一次教会举办的专题zuo4tan2hui4上，有数百名妇女出席讨论堕胎问题。	At a church rap session a few hundred women came to talk about their abortions.
预科	学生要先念一年yu4ke1, 然後才能开始攻读学位课程.	Students have to do a year's preparation before they start the degree course proper.
中锋	在足球锦标赛的最后３分钟时，两队还是不分胜负，突然切尔斯队的zhong1feng1非常出色地在罚球区之外将功赎罪球顶入了网内。	The two teams were drawing with only three minutes of play left in the Cup Final when Chelsea's centre forward pulled a master stroke and headed the ball into the net from outside the penalty area.
交货	若你方能保证按期jiao1huo4，我们要下大的订单。	If you can guarantee punctual delivery, we shall place large orders with you.
钢板	医生在他受伤的腿中植入了一块gang1ban3。	The doctor inserted a steel plate into his damaged leg.
天时	冬tian1shi2湖面上覆盖着冰。	In winter the lake is covered with ice.
探究	自由思想家（尤指在宗教思想方面）拒绝了权威和教条主义，赞同理性的tan4jiu1和思索的人	One who has rejected authority and dogma, especially in religious thinking, in favor of rational inquiry and speculation.
车行	拐弯之前别忘记指示che1hang2方向。	Don't forget to indicate before turning.
塞满	河道sai1man3了泥。	The channel of the river filled up with mud.
轮番	敌人lun2fan1轰炸, 他们仍英勇地抵抗.	They held out bravely against repeated enemy bombing.
全国性	在这个国家里，元旦是quan2guo2xing4的假日。	In this country New Year's Day is a national holiday.
会诊	hui4zhen3商议，尤指医生们参予的hui4zhen3	A consultation, especially one involving physicians.
耳目	｀多国产物＇之说尽可遮人er3mu4了.	The description `produce of more than one country' can cover a multitude of sins.
加紧	如果你不jia1jin3努力，你考试会不及格的。	If you don't pull your socks up, you'll fail the exam.
打结	这腰带是在前面da3jie2还是在後面？	Does this sash tie in front or at the back?
爱迪生	ai4 di2 sheng1具有善于挑选适当的人处理他的事务的才能。	Edison has had the gift of picking the right men to handle his affairs.
开办	他们决定kai1ban4一家合作社。	They decided to set up a cooperative.
便是	即bian4shi4在管理最好的家庭，事故有时也会发生的。	Accidents sometimes happen even in the best regulated families.
微粒	石棉沉着病由长期吸收石棉wei1li4而引起的慢性，日趋严重的肺病	A chronic, progressive lung disease caused by prolonged inhalation of asbestos particles.
长子	这个百万富翁已把他一半的股票移交给他的zhang3zi3。	The millionaire has handed over 50 percent of his stock to his first son.
代数	这个男孩做不出这道dai4shu4题。	The boy can't figure out the algebra problems.
直立	边缘装饰在桌子顶部、托盘或书架边缘处的zhi2li4的装饰品或造型	A decorative upright trimming or molding along the edge of a table top, tray, or shelf.
拔牙	给我ba2ya2时用了一氧化二氮。	I was given gas when they pulled my tooth out.
可取	利用权力压服别人并非永远是上策, 运用说服方法或许更为ke3qu3.	Exertion of authority over others is not always wise; persuasion may be better.
搅乱	他把桨放入水中，jiao3luan4了平静的湖面。	He put his oars in the water and disturbed the smooth surface of the lake.
铁道	一辆机车沿着tie3dao4隆隆地驶去。	A locomotive pounded down the railway track.
冷饮	一种leng3yin3品，常为白葡萄酒和果汁的混合物	A cold drink, often a mixture of white wine and juice.
担子	把dan4zi5换到另一肩上可其管用。	It works to shifted the load to the other shoulder.
质朴	朴实的样式或风格上朴实简单的；zhi4pu3的	Pure or simple in design or style; austere.
绕过	迂回管道用于引导气体或液体rao4guo4其它管道或装置的一种管道或渠道	A pipe or channel used to conduct gas or liquid around another pipe or a fixture.
监察	jian1cha2者防止浪费、丢失或不法行为的jian1cha2或防护者	One who serves as a guardian or protector against waste, loss, or illegal practices.
必修	那时英语是唯一bi4xiu1的外国语。	English was the only foreign language required.
大步	一步行走时跨出的一步；一da4bu4	A step made in walking; a stride.
假面	一刹那间，他慈善的jia3mian4扔掉，露出了他的真面目。	For a moment his mask of benevolence fell and the real man was revealed.
降级	被jiang4ji2的jiang4ji2的、丢脸的或降低尊严的	Reduced in rank, dignity, or esteem.
自治区	纽卡斯尔英格兰中西部的一个市级zi4zhi4qu1，位于斯图克西南偏南。拥有制砖业、制瓦业和纺织服装工业。人口74，200	A municipal borough of west-central England south-southwest of Stoke. It has brick, tile, and clothing industries. Population, 74,200.
音乐厅	有几家公司投标，争取建造新yin1yue4ting1的合同。	Several firm have bid for the contract to build the new concert hall.
驱散	太阳qu1san4了雾。	The sun dissipated the mist.
分隔	英吉利海峡把英法两国fen1ge2开来.	The English Channel divides England from France.
复印机	我们的fu4yin4ji1经常需要检修.	Our photocopier is in continual need of running repairs.
花掉	即使这工作要hua1diao4我六个星期的时间，我仍决心要把它完成。	Even if it will take me six weeks, I am determined to finish the job.
温差	就在这些季节里，热气团与冷气团的wen1cha1最大。	It is during these seasons that the differences in temperature between warm and cold masses of air are greatest.
徒劳无功	对程序进行修改是tu2lao2-wu2gong1的.	Revising the procedure was an entirely profitless exercise.
想像力	他的小说开拓了xiang3xiang4li4新天地。	His stories opened up new worlds of the imagination.
反向	救护车发动机罩盖上标有逆序fan3xiang4字母的AMBULANCE字样.	Ambulances have `AMBULANCE' printed in reverse on their bonnets.
自给自足	zi4ji3-zi4zu2的不依靠别人的帮助、关心或资助的；自力更生的	Not relying on others for support, care, or funds; self-supporting.
刀刃	一只兔子被卷到收割机的dao1ren4中去了。	A rabbit get catch in the blade of the reaper.
电灯	你知道谁是dian4deng1的发明者？	Do you know who is the creator of the electric bulb?
受训	shou4xun4的突击队员要参加令人筋疲力尽的突击课程.	Trainee commandos are put through an exhausting assault course.
完好无损	我答应一定wan2hao3wu2sun3地还你的自行车。	I promise to return your bicycle on good condition.
灌木丛	狐狸躲在猎狗抓不到它的guan4mu4cong2中。	The fox hid in the thicket where the dog could not reach it.
化学反应	电流的，伏打（式）的通过hua4xue2 fan3ying4产生的电流的	Producing electricity by chemical action.
汉斯	贝特，Han4si1·阿尔布雷希生于1906德裔美籍物理学家。因其对恒星能量产生的研究而获1967年诺贝尔奖	German-born American physicist. He won a1967 Nobel Prize for research on the energy production of stars.
器具	新石器新石器时代的石头qi4ju4	A stone implement of the Neolithic Period.
扒手	在公共汽车上要谨防pa2shou3。	Please guard against pickpockets on the bus.
用以	石蕊试纸可yong4yi3测试溶液是否含酸.	Litmus paper can be used as an indicator of the presence of acid in a solution.
纤维素	我们应该多吃一些富含xian1wei2su4的绿色蔬菜。	We should eat more green vegetables rich in cellulose.
输送	通过管道把热水从锅炉shu1song4到散热器里.	Pipes convey hot water from the boiler to the radiators.
进修	要想了解某词的用法, 查《jin4xiu1词典》.	If you want to know how a word is used, look the word up in the Advanced Learner's Dictionary.
光学	guang1xue2理论是爱因斯坦首创的。	The optic theory originated with Einstein.
算术	我的历史成绩不错, 但suan4shu4不太好.	I'm good at history but not so hot at arithmetic.
不可告人	美国入侵这个国家一定是出于bu4ke3-gao4ren2的政治目的。	America's invasion of the country must be done for unspeakable political purpose.
史册	他将作为伟大的政治家而载入shi3ce4。	He will go down in history as a great statesman.
调味料	哈吉司羊肉一种苏格兰菜，由绵羊或牛切碎的心，肺，肝与板油，洋葱，燕麦片和tiao2wei4liao4混合在被屠宰动物的腹中煮熟而成	A Scottish dish consisting of a mixture of the minced heart, lungs, and liver of a sheep or calf mixed with suet, onions, oatmeal, and seasonings and boiled in the stomach of the slaughtered animal.
早些	那天zao3xie1时候迫使敌人放弃给我军的阵地现在需要布置起来，对付那必然的反攻。	Positions surrendered to our troops earlier in the day had now to be prepared against the inevitable counter-attack.
发奋图强	他最好fa1fen4tu2qiang2，否则会失去工作。	He had better clean up his act, or he will be out of a job.
插上	录音机的插头没cha1shang5.	The recorder wasn't plugged in.
浪荡	这个lang4dang4子开始后悔他虚度了光阴。	The vagabond began to regret his waste of time.
害臊	那孩子见他妈妈当着同学们的面亲亲热热、婆婆妈妈的对待他，感到hai4sao4，不知如何是好。	The child was ashamed of the affectionate fuss his mother was making of him in front of his schoolmates and didn't know where to turn his eyes.
呼救	她高声hu1jiu4.	She called aloud for help.
步子	她用bu4zi5量出了花园的长度。	She paced out the length of the garden.
混战	警察和示威群众hun4zhan4起来。	The police scuffled with the demonstrators.
麻疹	真不凑巧，当马戏团来到我们镇上时戴维得了ma2zhen3。	It was too bad David had measles when the circus came to our town.
石器	自那时起，从埃及的木乃伊头发到shi2qi4时代的檀香木等有机物质的年代都已被确定。	Since then, organic materials ranging from Egyptian mummy hair to Stone Age sandals have been dated.
下落不明	上周末失踪的登山队至今xia4luo4bu4ming2，全无踪迹。	All trace has been lost of the climbing team missing since last weekend.
重型	zhong4xing2卡车一经过，整所房子都震动起来。	The whole house vibrates whenever a heavy lorry passes.
站岗	看守在深夜仍在zhan4gang3。	The guards are still on watch at midnight.
肉眼	细菌用rou4yan3看不见。	Germs are invisible to the naked eye.
免税	渡船上有个挺不错的mian3shui4商店.	There's a good duty-free shop (ie one selling such goods) on the ferry.
冷酷无情	他是个精明的、有时候leng3ku4wu2qing2的对手。	He is a shrewd and sometimes ruthless adversary.
卷轴	电影胶片从juan3zhou2滑出缠绕在放映机上了.	The film flew off the spool and wound itself round the projector.
漠不关心	mo4 bu4 guan1xin1的，冷淡的看上去mo4 bu4 guan1xin1的或冷淡的	Seeming to be coolly unconcerned or indifferent.
柴火	熊熊的chai2huo5在起居室的炉中噼啪作响。	A cheerful wood fire was crackling in the sitting room.
倍增	指挥官朝气蓬勃和欢欣愉悦的神态使士兵们勇气bei4zeng1。	The leader's vital and cheerful manner filled his men with courage.
屠宰场	那里的农民过去总是让羊吃掉田里的油菜，这样好把它们养壮了送进tu2zai3chang3。	Farmers there used to eat off the coleseed with sheep so as to make them fit for the butcher.
花束	从新娘的hua1shu4上垂下来的丝带打成了一个结。	Ribbon hung from the bride's bouquet was tied in a bow.
送行	我们去车站为她song4xing2。	We went to the station to see her off.
喀	桨ka1吧一声断了.	The oar broke with a snap.
死讯	他的si3xun4已电告其家属。	News of his death was cabled to his family.
油井	油田里有一口you2jing3发生井喷。	An oil well blew out in the oil field.
卷宗	我们近期的信件juan4zong1在哪里?	Where's the file of our recent correspondence?
钮	遇火灾时按下此niu3。	Press this button in case of fire.
矛	渔夫用mao2作为武器。	The fisher used a spear as his weapon.
暴行	人们不会忘记他统治时期的bao4xing2。	People will remember the tyrannies of his reign.
名家	报刊杂志刊登了许多ming2jia1的文章。	The newspapers and magazines carry a lot of articles written by famous experts.
变量	矩，动差任意bian4liang4的正整数功效的期望值。第一个矩是分配的平均数	The expected value of a positive integral power of a random variable. The first moment is the mean of the distribution.
既定	背离ji4ding4路线者；阴谋破坏者采用不同路线，进行分裂或从事破坏活动的人	One engaged in diversionary, disruptive, or subversive activities.
病变	脑猝变智力的突然的、剧烈的bing4bian4	A sudden, violent disturbance of the mind.
推行	政府拟tui1xing2私有化计画.	The government intends to go ahead with its privatization plans.
骤雨	zhou4yu3这种水的下降；暴雨	A fall of such water; a rainstorm.
添加剂	tian1jia1ji4，添加物少量加入其他物质以使其提高、增强或改变的物质	A substance added in small amounts to something else to improve, strengthen, or otherwise alter it.
超车	在转弯处chao1che1十分危险.	It's dangerous to overtake on a bend.
加固	混凝土墙是用钢筋jia1gu4的。	The concrete walls are reinforced with steel rods.
剧痛	肠绞痛肠内痉挛性ju4tong4	Sharp, spasmodic pains in the bowels.
甜味	我喜欢熟桃的香tian2wei4。	I like the luscious taste of ripe peaches.
激战	该飞机的飞行速度可慢了一点，但它转的圈子可以小得多——这在近距离ji1zhan4中是一大优势。	The plane may be slightly slower but it can turn in a much tighter circle-a big advantage in a dog fight.
一月份	Yi1yue4fen4生产率达到最高点。	Productivity peaked in January.
晚霞	红红的wan3xia2是晴天的预兆。	A red sunset signifies fine weather.
据点	ju4dian3提供下一步前进基地的坚固或安全的位置	A firm or secure position that provides a base for further advancement.
盖上	gai4shang5果酱瓶! 要不准得招黄蜂.	Cover the jam! It's sure to invite the wasps.
口述	诗以生动的和充满想象的方式来表达经验、思想或情感的kou3shu4文学作品，以运用其声音和暗示力而选用浓缩的语言为特征，并运用如节奏、暗喻和音韵等文学手法	A verbal composition designed to convey experiences, ideas, or emotions in a vivid and imaginative way, characterized by the use of condensed language chosen for its sound and suggestive power and by the use of literary techniques such as meter, metaphor, and rhyme.
完人	殊品，wan2ren2，绝代佳人卓越无比的完美事物或美人；wan2ren2	A person or thing of unsurpassed excellence or beauty; a paragon.
兜售	他在城里挨家挨户dou1shou4日用百货.	He peddled small household articles around the town.
健谈	jian4tan2的倾向于易于沟通的；爱说话的	Inclined to communicate readily; talkative.
生路	他奋力开出一条sheng1lu4；他奋战一生。	He fought his way through life.
假惺惺	其他共和国现在公开抱怨新俄罗斯帝国主义，同时以前的那些头儿们也jia3xing1xing1地为违反“人权”一掬同情之泪。	Leaders of other republics mutter openly now about a new Russian imperialism, while former chieftains shed crocodile tears over the violation of""human rights.""
牌号	那个推销员试图以劣质pai2hao4骗卖给我们。	The salesman tried to fob off an inferior brand on us.
胭脂	yan1zhi5红一种强烈到鲜明的红色	A strong to vivid red.
会所	hui4suo3决定增加报刊订阅份数.	The club has/have decided to increase subscriptions.
闪过	一个模糊的身影从黑暗中shan3guo4。	A shadowy figure went past in the darkness.
钢筋	混凝土墙是用gang1jin1加固的。	The concrete walls are reinforced with steel rods.
豪爽	她从容地掏出钱夹付了一千镑现金, 多麽hao2shuang3!	She just took out her purse and paid a thousand in cash: what a cool customer!
餐车	can1che1已挂（在末节车厢）上.	The dining-car was coupled on (to the last coach).
翻阅	他fan1yue4地址簿，寻找号码。	He thumbed through the address book looking for the number.
晾干	这些衣服还是湿的，把他们在太阳下liang4gan1。	The clothes are still moist. Dry them in the sun.
市内	正如今天的报道，英磅进一步下跌导致了shi4nei4的抛售的一股新浪潮。	The further decline of the pound as reported today has set off a fresh wave of selling in the city.
要挟	我的房东yao1xie2说要把每周租金提高10英镑.	My landlord's threatening to put the rent up by 10 a week.
公共场所	大多数穆斯林妇女在gong1gong4 chang3suo3都戴着面纱。	Most Moslem women wear veils in public places.
瞧不起	美国来的人他都qiao2bu5qi3。	He's disdainful of anyone from the USA.
择	公路干线遭水淹没，我们只得ze2乡间小径绕行。	The main road was flooded so we had to go round by narrow country lanes.
痰	这老人想把tan2咯出来但他不能。	The old man tried to spit up sputum, but he could not.
板球	我ban3qiu2曾打得很好，可惜现在已生疏了。	I used to be good at cricket, but now I'm out of practice.
神力	魔力，shen2li4被认为是寓于某个人或某件神圣的物件中的超自然力量	A supernatural force believed to dwell in a person or sacred object.
静候	一大群人耐心地jing4hou4着。	A patient throng was waiting in silence.
新式	这种xin1shi4飞机在最初几次试飞中表现性能良好。	The new aircraft has performed very well in its initial trials.
下级	高级军官和xia4ji2军官的房间是分著的.	There are separate rooms for senior and junior officers.
熔化	铸造车间rong2hua4金属并将之注入模子的地方	An establishment in which metal is melted and poured into molds.
幻灯片	他们想看看我们的彩色huan4deng1pian4.	They want us to show some of our colour slides.
载入	他将作为伟大的政治家而zai3ru4史册。	He will go down in history as a great statesman.
腰果	yao1guo3和核桃都是坚果。	Cashew nuts and walnuts are both nuts.
溢出	大雨过后，下水道yi4chu1水来。	The drains overflowed after the heavy rain.
朝向	电晕在电晕放电中在高压电极出现的一种微弱光辉，常伴随有chao2xiang4低压电极的电流	A faint glow enveloping the high-field electrode in a corona discharge, often accompanied by streamers directed toward the low-field electrode.
自制力	他那次发作是他缺乏zi4zhi4li4的典型事例.	That outburst was a typical example of his lack of self-control.
棋盘	围棋日本的一种两人棋戏，用棋子在一横竖皆有十九条交叉线的qi2pan2上下	A Japanese game for two, played with counters on a board that is ruled with19 vertical and19 horizontal lines.
远征	他们为yuan3zheng1治装.	They equipped themselves for the expedition.
躺椅	吊床一种易摆动的吊床或tang3yi3，用帆布或厚网挂在两树或别的支撑物之间	A hanging, easily swung cot or lounge of canvas or heavy netting suspended between two trees or other supports.
横向	heng2xiang4性某些植物或其器官安排他们自己以正确的角度而得到一种刺激的趋向	The tendency of certain plants or their parts to arrange themselves at right angles to a stimulus.
拙劣	这次审判是对公正的一次zhuo1lie4的模拟	The trial was a parody of justice.
摇摆不定	他的政治观点在两个极端之间yao2bai3bu4ding4.	He oscillates between political extremes.
独居	他晚年du2ju1，从不欢迎来访者。	In the latter years of his life he lived alone and never welcomed visitors.
扎营	登山队员在半山腰zha1ying2.	The climbers made camp half-way up the peak.
单方面	候选人须 表明他们对dan1fang1mian4裁军所持的立场.	The candidates had to state their position on unilateral disarmament.
姜汁	你喜欢jiang1zhi1啤酒吗？	Do you like ginger beer?
定量	在干旱时期ding4liang4供应水	Rationing water during the drought.
杂质	吸气剂以少量加入化学或冶金过程中用来吸收za2zhi4的物质	A material added in small amounts during a chemical or metallurgical process to absorb impurities.
共和	这儿是gong4he2主义运动的据点。	Here is a stronghold of republicanism.
沾沾自喜	霍勒斯zhan1zhan1 zi4 xi3于自己的权力。他就是那个拉动响鞭发号令的是暴徒，是头子。	Horace was relishing his power. He was the tough, the big shot, who gave orders with the crack of a whip.
德国人	历史可以证明，De2guo2ren2在1944年12月的反攻巴尔吉之战中使出了最后的力量，从那时起，他们的失败只不过是时间问题而已。	History may prove that in Dec.1944, the Germans shot their bolt at the Battle of the Bulge; after that, their defeat was just a matter of time.
排水	这沙土地利於pai2shui3, 适於种植块根作物.	This gravelly soil is well drained and good for growing root crops.
镰刀	旗帜上有lian2dao1的图案。	There is a picture of the sickle on the flag.
统计学	她在大学学习tong3ji4xue2.	She's studying statistics at university.
会考	如果你不积极进取，更加努力学习，你就hui4kao3不及格的。	If you don't get on the ball and start studying harder, you're going to flunk.
年月	在那黑暗的nian2yue4，他受到种种歧视。	He suffered all kinds of discrimination in those dark days.
动脑筋	我们要动dong4 nao3jin1找出解决的办法来.	We must apply our minds to finding a solution.
曲调	这首歌曲的qu3diao4悲伤。	The song has plaintive melody.
千千万万	qian1qian1-wan4wan4的人死于饥荒。	Thousands of people died of famine.
下游	在瀑布xia4you2附近可以过河.	You can cross the river a short distance below (ie downstream from) the waterfall.
咬牙切齿	我yao3ya2-qie4chi3愤怒已极。	I was gnashing my teeth with rage.
期中	鹿角嫩皮，鹿茸在成长qi1zhong1的鹿角上的柔软的毛皮覆盖物	The soft, furry covering on the developing antlers of deer.
先天	他的脚稍有xian1tian1畸形，走起路来一瘸一拐。	He was born with a slight deformity of the feet which made him limp.
源源不断	投诉信件yuan2yuan2bu4duan4地寄到（总部）.	Letters of complaint poured in (to head office).
花销	那位职员用算盘将上周的hua1xiao5计算出来。	The clerk reckoned the expenditure last week with an abacus.
问讯	｀怎样申请许可证?＇｀你得到wen4xun4处打听.＇	`How do I apply for this licence?' `You want inquiries.'
不合	待在像这样的地方bu4he2我的身份。	I don't belong in the place like this.
危在旦夕	遭遇伊拉克上校的最初片刻，目睹他令士兵在我们面前劫掠我们车里的物件，我们的生命似乎wei1 zai4 dan4xi1。	For the first few moments, confronted by an Iraqi colonel who had his soldiers loot our vehicle in front of us, it seemed as if our lives hung by a precarious thread.
旋	他xuan2动把手, 但门就是打不开.	She turned the handle but the door wouldn't open.
军事基地	他们在外国保持多少个jun1shi4 ji1di4？	How many military bases are they maintaining on foreign soil?
阻	保持交通畅通无zu3.	Keep the traffic flowing.
频	低pin2扬声器设计用来再现低音pin2率的扬声器	A loudspeaker designed to reproduce bass frequencies.
隶属	该公司以前li4shu3於一个国际银行集团.	The company formerly belonged to an international banking group.
挪动	人家让我nuo2dong4了车子。	I was made to move my car.
素食者	对於su4shi2zhe3来说, 豆类食物是蛋白质的理想来源.	Pulses are a good source of protein for vegetarians.
通情达理	你有这样一位tong1qing2-da2li3的父亲，真是幸运。	You are fortunate to have such a reasonable father.
雨点	起风了, yu3dian3忽然落下来。	A wind arose, and rain drops began falling all at once.
议题	议会将在下周辩论国有化yi4ti2。	Parliament will debate the nationalization issue next week.
自命不凡	他是个zi4ming4 bu4 fan2的官员。	He is a pompous official.
出发点	未来学一门以当前状况和趋势为chu1fa1dian3，对如科学、技术和社会潜在的发展作出预测或研究的学科	The study or forecasting of potential developments, as in science, technology, and society, using current conditions and trends as a point of departure.
杏	xing4色衣服很好看。	The apricot coloured clothes look beautiful.
纸币	政府颁布了发行一种zhi3bi4的法令。	Government has decreed a paper currency.
公约	这一gong1yue1并没有促进国际和平。	That pact didn't advance peace among nations.
不景气	冬季贸易bu4 jing3qi4.	Trade is slack in winter.
一品	他一口气喝了yi1pin3脱牛奶.	He drank a pint of milk in one go.
喜讯	xi3xun4传来，他心情很好。	The good news put him in fine fettle.
列队	全营以连为单位在军营广场上lie4dui4.	The battalion formed up by companies on the barrack square.
守法	社会有权要求人们shou3fa3。	Society has a right to expect people to obey the law.
双腿	交叉着shuang1tui3	Cross one's legs.
自来	悲哀不招zi4lai2。	Sorrow comes unsent for.
普普通通	这个pu3 pu3 tong1 tong1的指挥见到这样的乐谱便认输了。	The average conductor, faced with such a score, throws up his cards.
冲刷	洗矿槽，淘汰盘一个倾斜的槽，在其中被碾压的矿石被流水chong1shua1以冲走杂质	An inclined trough in which crushed ore is washed with running water to flush away impurities.
高位	因经济衰退状况终止有望，股票价格得以保持gao1wei4。	Share prices were buoyed up by hopes of an end to the recession.
驯养	很多种类的松鼠都很容易xun4yang3。	Many kinds of squirrels are easy to tame.
锐利	能看很远的，目光rui4li4的	Able to see far; keen-sighted.
剧团	请允许我对你们ju4tuan2的成功表示最热烈的祝贺。	Allow me to offer my warm congratulations on the success of your troupe.
法网	他逃到巴西，企图逃避恢恢fa3wang3。	He fled to Brazil trying to escape the long arm of the law.
自强	和美国家庭的这种爱同时并存的是zi4qiang2及独立的文化价值观。	Coexisting with such love in the American family are cultural values of self-reliance and independence.
刻板	ke4ban3的由严格的提纲或概念规定的；ke4ban3的	Marked by sharp outline or definition; stark.
近亲	希尔夫人不会客, 但jin4qin1除外.	Mrs Hill is not at home to anyone except close relatives.
论战	争论演变成了公开的lun4zhan4。	The argument boiled over into open war.
洗碗机	在接受调查的五百家住户中, 40% 有xi3wan3ji1.	Of the five hundred householders surveyed, 40% had dishwashers.
趋于	她不断修改自己的小说以使其qu1yu2完善。	She matured her novel by constant revision.
击退	我们对入侵之敌采取牵制的方针, 以备组织好兵力将之ji1tui4.	Until we'd built up sufficient forces to drive the invaders back, we pursued a policy of containment.
悄悄话	这两个姑娘相互谈了关于各自男友的qiao1qiao1hua4。	The two girls told each other confidences about their boyfriends.
细小	如果病人住在公用病房里。很少有护士经过时不为他们做点小事情。这是护士的一项传统，即提供“亲切关怀护理”（TLC），亦即为病人提供持续不断的xi4xiao3服务。	If patients are in an open ward, few nurses will pass them by without doing some little thing for them. It is in a nurse's tradition to give what is called""TLC"", tender loving care, some constant little service to the sick.
斧	这把石fu3是古代的遗物。	This stone axe is a relic of ancient times.
底细	我应该先审慎打探一下这家公司的di3xi4, 然後您再签字.	I should make a few discreet enquires about the firm before you sign anything.
布雷	钱bu4lei2绸一种由白线穿过彩色纵向线的精细轻织物	A fine, lightweight fabric woven with white threads across a colored warp.
卫队	政府为到访的元首派出了武装wei4dui4.	The government provided an armed escort for the visiting head of State.
手边	把词典时时 放在shou3bian1.	Keep your dictionary ready (to hand) at all times.
一本正经	他装作yi1 ben3 zheng4jing1，可是你看得出他是在开玩笑。	He pretended to be serious, but you could tell that he had hi tongue in his cheek.
法郎	这些就是：一些法国fa3lang2，瑞士fa3lang2，美圆和一些荷兰盾。	Here it is, some French francs, Swiss francs, American dollars and a few Dutch guilders.
瘦小	这个shou4xiao3软弱的孩子成为全班嘲笑的对象。	The small weak child became the scorn of the class.
下月	一个国际性的会议xia4yue4将在北京举行。	An international conference will be held in Beijing next month.
声名	莎士比亚的作品赋予他不朽的sheng1ming2。	Shakespeare's works have given him immortality.
滔滔	这个堤坝拦住了tao1tao1的洪水.	Millions of gallons of water are kept back by the dam.
换乘	这就是我们从小汽车huan4cheng2公共汽车的地方.	This is where we change from car to bus.
调试	对计算机程序中的指令序列的检测和记录，例如在监控程序和tiao2shi4程序中使用的情况。	The detection and recording of the sequencing of instructions in computer programs, for example, as used in monitors and debugging routines.
住宅区	我们住在很富裕的zhu4zhai2qu1.	We live in a rather rich neighbourhood.
邮费	同函奉上55美元书款支票一张，外加每册14分you2fei4在内。请查收。	I am enclosing a cheque for$55.00 which covers the cost of the book plus the postage charge of14 cents a volume.
吟唱	这名吟游诗人在全国游历，yin2chang4他自己写的诗歌。	The minstrel travelled about the country singing songs and poems written by him.
妒嫉	他们也许du4ji2他的成功。	They may feel jealous of his success.
求之不得	假若她想要的是我的办公桌, 她尽管拿走, 我还qiu2 zhi1 bu4 de2呢!	As far as I'm concerned, if it's my desk she wants, she's welcome to it!
伤人	把那刀子放下，以免shang1ren2！	Put down that knife before you hurt somebody!
魔杖	助人仙女挥动她的mo2zhang4.	The fairy godmother waved her (magic) wand.
特许	私商，无照营业者侵犯贸易垄断企业的人，例如在有te4xu3权公司的经营范围内从事未经许可的贸易活动	One that trespasses on a trade monopoly, as by conducting unauthorized trade in an area designated to a chartered company.
僵局	由於双方都不肯妥协, 谈判陷入jiang1ju2.	The negotiations had reached an impasse, with both sides refusing to compromise.
不予	英国政府对这些报道bu4yu3证实.	Whitehall is/are refusing to confirm the reports.
抢夺	他们不仅qiang3duo2你的财物，还要把每样东西都捣毁。	Not only do they rob you, they smash everything too.
烘烤	砖块在太阳下或窑里hong1kao3变硬的模制长方形黏土砖，用作建房和铺路的材料	A molded rectangular block of clay baked by the sun or in a kiln until hard and used as a building and paving material.
横梁	柱，杆建筑物框架中heng2liang2的支撑物	A support for a beam in the framework of a building.
不以为然	他对死刑存废的见解许多人都bu4 yi3 wei2 ran2.	His views on capital punishment are unpalatable to many.
人工智能	表处理语言用于处理包含有表格的数据的编程语言，被广泛地运用于ren2gong1 zhi4neng2研究	A programming language designed to process data consisting of lists. It is widely used in artificial intelligence research.
全市	quan2shi4居民倾城而出迎接凯旋球队.	The city turned out to welcome back its victorious team.
租约	我们这套公寓的zu1yue1下月到期.	Our present lease on the flat expires next month.
表亲	这棵苏格兰植物是我的一个biao3qin1给我的礼物。	This Scottish plant was a gift from my cousin.
爆炸物	火药是一种bao4zha4wu4。	Gunpowder is an explosive.
梨子	我喜欢吃水果，比如苹果、li2zi5、香蕉等等。	I like fruits, such as apples, pears, bananas...
炮轰	pao4hong1敌军阵地之後, 我步兵开始进攻.	Enemy positions were bombarded before our infantry attacked.
重物	zhong4wu4，坠脚一种zhong4wu4，如大块物品，系在动物腿上阻碍行动	A weight, such as a block, attached to the leg of an animal to hinder movement.
下层	小树林缺乏茂密xia4ceng2树丛的小树林或树木群体	A small wood or stand of trees that lacks dense undergrowth.
嫁妆	那个年代，我妻子的jia4zhuang5很少。	The dowry of my wife was very little in that age.
道义	人道主义，博爱主义认为人类唯一的dao4yi4责任是提高人类福利的信仰	The belief that the sole moral obligation of humankind is the improvement of human welfare.
纹理	花岗伟晶岩一种有时富含铀、钨和钽等稀有元素的粗wen2li3花岗岩	A coarse-grained granite, sometimes rich in rare elements such as uranium, tungsten, and tantalum.
树脂	这个架子是合成shu4zhi1做的。	This shelf was made of synthetic resin.
愈加	我对他那种自私的行为yu4jia1恼火起来。	I am becoming more and more irritate by his selfish behaviour.
悔改	不hui3gai3的未在精神上自新或改良的；不惭愧的	Not spiritually renewed or reformed; not repentant.
井井有条	他有个很能干的伙伴，替他把一切弄得jing3jing3 you3 tiao2。	He has a practical partner who organizes everything for him.
溶液	硫酸铜rong2ye4是什么颜色？	What color is copper sulfate solution?
嘉奖	数名士兵因英勇而受jia1jiang3。	Several soldiers were decorated for bravery.
皈依	许多人gui1yi1他们父母所属的教派。	Many people adhere to the church of their parents.
自燃	zi4ran2的在空气中自发地燃烧的	Spontaneously igniting in air.
为时已晚	现在大楼已开始动工，要放弃行动wei2 shi2 yi3 wan3。	Now the building has been started, it is too late to back off.
严酷	爸爸主张对我们进行严格的教育。他总是说，“良好的”教育会使我们过于娇嫩，不能与yan2ku4的生活作斗争。	Father believed in bringing us up the hard way. He always said that a""good"" education would make us too soft for the harsh battles of life.
也罢	绅士可能有钱、或者可能依赖朋友过活；绅士的准则是，无论他怎么穷ye3ba4，他依然是拒绝做任何有用的工作的。	A gentleman may have money or may sponge on his friends; the criterion of a gentleman is that however poor he may be he still refuses to do useful work.
出产	人言沉默是金，但这世界chu1chan3的顶尖蠢才们则对这问题未见有话说过。	Silence is said to be golden, but the best fool the world has has ever produced nothing to say on the subject.
整整齐齐	孩子们zheng3zheng3qi2qi2排好队。	The children lined up in an orderly fashion.
机动车	ji1dong4che1协会劝告开车的人暂时不要使用公路。	Motoring organization is urging driver not to travel by road if possible.
赐福	愿主ci4fu2于你们大家。	The blessing of the Lord be upon you all.
分区	空域；领空某一特定地区之上的空域，通常是政治划fen1qu1，如国家的领空	The portion of the atmosphere above a particular land area, especially that of a political subdivision such as a nation.
民兵	他正在这样干时被一位min2bing1撞见了。	A militiaman surprised him in the act.
察看	视察，巡视以视察或检查为目的官方性cha2kan4，如主教对一主教管区的视察	An official visit for the purpose of inspection or examination, as of a bishop to a diocese.
寒气	夜间的han2qi4使他感到冰冷彻骨。	The night air chilled his bones.
秘书长	mi4shu1zhang3对缓和那个地区的紧张局势做了很多工作。	The secretary general do much to ease the tension in the area.
受益匪浅	广泛的阅读使我shou4yi4 fei3qian3。	I have benefited a lot from extensive reading.
投标	各公司应邀tou2biao1承建新高速公路.	Firms were invited to tender for the construction of the new motorway.
纸片	破烂，垃圾丢弃的东西，如玻璃、碎布、zhi3pian4或金属等可以用某种方式重复使用的东西	Discarded material, such as glass, rags, paper, or metal, that may be reused in some form.
徒手	他是tu2shou3格斗的能手。	He is an expert in unarmed combat.
渗	伤口仍在shen4血。	Blood was still oozing from the wound.
懒洋洋	她双臂垂在两旁，lan3yang2yang2地躺在椅子上。	She was lolling in a chair, with her arms hanging over the sides.
子公司	集团的大部分利润是由远东的zi3gong1si1缴纳。	Most of the group profit is contributed by the subsidiary in the far east.
才智	至于那男孩的cai2zhi4, 多得他都用不完。	As to intelligence, the boy has more than he can possibly make use of.
细长	她有着xi4chang2的腿。	She has long thin shanks.
五体投地	有的人对他佩服得wu3 ti3 tou2 di4, 而有的人则认为他装腔作势.	Some people admired him greatly while others considered him a poseur.
外交官	那个wai4jiao1guan1很胖。	The diplomat is over weight.
梧桐	大街两旁的wu2tong2树已冒芽长叶。	The plane trees lining the main street are leafing out.
不平	他们在崎岖bu4ping2的乡村小路上走着。	They walk on the rugged country road.
抖动	那台陈旧的发动机dou3dong4著发出摩擦的声音。	The old engine ground and shuddered.
施行	不能shi1xing2手术的肿瘤	An inoperable tumor.
纸板	有人指定拉姆奇夫人把钱装在一只纸盒子里，并把zhi3ban3盒放在她的门外边。	Mrs Ramsay was instructed to place the money in a cardboard box and to leave it outside her door.
佐料	辣味的，开胃的尝起来辛辣但美味的；zuo3liao4多的	Pleasantly pungent or tart in taste; spicy.
石板	彩色平板印刷术用一系列shi2ban3或锌板做平板来印刷彩画的技术或过程	The art or process of printing color pictures from a series of stone or zinc plates by lithography.
右翼	他们利用报刊来传播you4yi4观点.	They use the press to disseminate right-wing views.
骨盆	一条靠近gu3pen2的动脉	A pelvic artery.
抵消	抵押款提高了，其中一部分可由免税额增加而di3xiao1。	Higher mortgage rates are partly offset by increased tax allowances.
绕行	公路干线遭水淹没，我们只得择乡间小径rao4xing2。	The main road was flooded so we had to go round by narrow country lanes.
吉隆坡	Ji2long2po1马来西亚的首都和最大城市，位于马来半岛的西南部、新加坡西北。于1857年由锡矿工人建立，现为该国的商业和工业中心。人口937，817	The capital and largest city of Malaysia, on the southwest Malay Peninsula northwest of Singapore. Founded by tin miners in1857, it is the commercial and industrial hub of the country. Population, 937,817.
婚事	他的父母决不会答应这门hun1shi4。	Her parents will never take acquiescence of such a marriage.
轮换	生物动力学有机物栽培和作物培养的一种方法，需要考虑如行星作用和季节lun2huan4等因素	A method of organic gardening and crop cultivation in which certain factors, such as planetary and seasonal cycles, are considered.
恼怒	我非常nao3nu4，以致觉得非给报社写封信不可。	I was so annoyed that I felt impelled to write a letter to the paper.
唐朝	Tang2chao2是一段以开明著称的时期。	The Tang Dynasty is a period remarkable for its liberality.
王室	街道布满了花朵以迎接wang2shi4成员莅临.	The streets were strewn with flowers for the royal visit.
渔网	三层刺网一种三层竖向安置的yu2wang3，由一层细目网夹在两层粗目网中构成	A vertically set fishing net of three layers, consisting of a finely meshed net between two nets of coarse mesh.
合法化	有些人想将私有大麻he2fa3hua4.	Some people want to legalize the possession of cannabis.
言归正传	让我们yan2 gui1zheng4zhuan4。	Let's get to the point.
合情合理	她的要求完全he2qing2 he2li3.	She's perfectly reasonable in her demands.
栅	银行的职员从格zha4後面看著顾客.	The bank clerk peered at the customer through/from behind the grille.
数以千计	自由党候选人轻易获胜，超出选票shu4yi3qian1ji4。	The liberal candidate romped through with thousands of votes to spare.
迫击炮	受重型pai3ji1pao4火力威胁的敌军阵地；受步枪火力的袭击	Subjected enemy positions to heavy mortar fire; struck by rifle fire.
绝非	他jue2fei1学者。	He is anything but a scholar.
福斯特	fu2 si1 te4先生不能接受你的宴请，深表歉意。	Mr Foster is sorry that he cannot accept your invitation to dinner.
坏死	huai4si3因创伤或疾病引起的细胞或组织的死亡，尤其指身体局部面积的huai4si3	Death of cells or tissues through injury or disease, especially in a localized area of the body.
志向	兰登作了一次不成功的朗诵。老师有点不悦，对他说道：“兰登，你在这门课上好像进步不大，你好像缺乏zhi4xiang4。”	Landon had made an unsuccessful attempt at the recitation, and the doctor, somewhat nettled, said:""Landon, you don't seem to be getting on very fast in this subject.""
无色	wu2se4的wu2se4的，因零饱和度而没有颜色，如中性灰色，白色，或黑色	Designating color perceived to have zero saturation and therefore no hue, such as neutral grays, white, or black.
寄予	读了这本书，我们会对主人翁的斗争ji4yu3同情。	Reading this book, we can identify with the main character's struggle.
助长	不要zhu4zhang3孩子的坏习惯.	Don't encourage bad habits in a child.
阵线	英军的zhen4xian4被迫后退一段距离。	The British line was forced back a short distance.
大祸	这场da4huo4罪责全在公司.	The blame for the disaster has been laid firmly at the company's door.
哗啦啦	在暴风中屋顶的瓦片hua1la1la1地落了下来.	During the gale roof tiles came hurtling down.
行装	士兵们背起xing2zhuang1，继续前进。	The soldiers shouldered their kit and moved on.
负债	fu4zhai4资产某人尤指破产者所拥有的可以用来抵债的全部财产	The entire property owned by a person, especially a bankrupt, that can be used to settle debts.
汲取	我们从这场灾难中仍不断ji2qu3教训.	We are still absorbing the lessons of this disaster.
护航	运兵船由两艘军舰hu4hang2。	The troop ship was escorted by two warships.
血球	血液中有红和白两种xue4qiu2。	There are red and white corpuscles in blood.
污	她的衣服溅上了泥wu1.	Her clothes were bespattered with mud.
酸性	嗜中性染料的不一定非用suan1xing4或碱性染剂染色不可的，也易于用中性染剂染色的，尤其指白细胞	Not stained strongly or definitely by either acid or basic dyes but stained readily by neutral dyes. Used especially of white blood cells.
产地	印度是大象和老虎的chan3di4。	India is the home of elephants and tigers.
果肉	曼密苹果这种树的果实，具有质密有汁的guo3rou4和有毒性的种子	The fruit of this tree, having firm juicy flesh and toxic seeds.
交响乐	那首jiao1xiang3yue4曲给糟蹋得不成样子。	The symphony was dreadfully mangled.
二流	她充其量是个er4liu2歌手。	She is at best a second-rate singer.
阀门	这台泵通过这个fa2men2把（容器中的）空气抽出.	The pump sucks air out (of the vessel) through this valve.
卡扎菲	欧洲新闻界常把里根先生描绘成钉住Ka3zha1fei1上校不放，譬如说对叙利亚则睁一眼闭一眼。据说叙国也有化学武器，并与恐怖活动有关。	And in the European press, Mr. Reagan was frequently portrayed as fixated on Colonel Qaddafi, turning a blind eye, for example, to Syria, which is also said to have chemical weapons and has also been tied to terrorism.
绝伦	这部科幻电影有些特殊效果美妙jue2lun2.	The science fiction film had some marvellous special effects.
粮草	兵马未动, liang2cao3先行。	Food and fodder should go ahead of troops and horses.
落选	他luo4xuan3的原因似乎并不清楚。	It seems uncertain why he lost the election.
腾空	好客的主人很快为尊贵的客人teng2kong1了闲置着的房间。	The hospitable host had his spare room emptied very quickly for the honoured guest.
白蚁	女王在群居的蜜蜂、蚂蚁或bai2yi3群体中，可繁殖并发育完全的雌虫	The fertile, fully developed female in a colony of social bees, ants, or termites.
不能不	我bu4neng2bu4可怜他。	I cannot but pity him.
主修	专业，zhu3xiu1课选作学术专业的一个研究领域	A field of study chosen as an academic specialty.
打捞	每月都从运河中da3lao1出几辆旧汽车来.	Several old cars are fished out (of the canal) every month.
拨款	他在恳求bo1kuan3修建一所新学校。	He was appealing for funds to build a new school.
炒锅	她把chao3guo1当啷一声掉在石头地板上。	She clashed the pan down on the stone floor.
围棋	wei2qi2日本的一种两人棋戏，用棋子在一横竖皆有十九条交叉线的棋盘上下	A Japanese game for two, played with counters on a board that is ruled with19 vertical and19 horizontal lines.
孪生	我总分不清他和他的luan2sheng1兄弟。	I always confounded him with his twin brother.
防空	在fang2kong1演习时对一切灯火都实行管制。	All lights are blacked out during air defence exercises.
趾高气扬	他像一只骄傲的孔雀一样在我前面zhi3gao1-qi4yang2地走着。	He strutted in front of me like a peacock.
撰写	彼得将他的那部新小说搁置了一年，与此同时，他给杂志zhuan4xie3一些稿件以便赚点钱用。	Peter set his new novel aside for a year while he wrote some magazine articles to make a bit of money.
小牛	向女神祭献了一头牺牲xiao3niu2.	A calf was offered up as a sacrifice to the goddess.
少有	这家公司的主要问题是缺shao3you3技术的人员。	The company's main problem is the shortage of skilled personnel.
应征	他几次报名ying4zheng1，但都不合标准，先是由于年纪太小，而后又由于长得太瘦。	He tried several times to enlist, but first he was too young, then too thin, to make the grade.
盆子	这个pen2zi5是铁做的。	This basin is made of iron.
据称	该文件ju4cheng1是一项正式声明.	The document purports to be an official statement.
线上	他指向远处地平xian4shang4的一座塔.	He pointed to a tower on the distant horizon.
空话	什麽事都不要依靠他－－他光会说kong1hua4。	Don't rely on him to do anything he's just a talker.
酷似	她ku4si4以前我认识的一个女孩。	She's a dead ringer for a girl I used to know.
音像	盒式yin1xiang4带上有个小窗, 能看见里面的磁带.	There is a little window in the cassette case so that you can see the tape.
鳕鱼	他买了一个xue3yu2罐头和一个三明治作晚饭。	He bought a canned cod and a sandwich as supper.
严重性	他似乎没有意识到形势的yan2zhong4xing4。	He doesn't seem to understand the gravity of the situation.
经济学家	jing1ji4xue2jia1预言通货膨胀率将会增长。	The economists predicted an increase in the rate of inflation.
葡萄糖	低血糖症血液中pu2tao2tang2不正常地低含量	An abnormally low level of glucose in the blood.
横跨	高大的树木成拱形heng2kua4过那条河.	Tall trees arched across the river.
讲到	你jiang3dao4一半就停下来不讲，太没意思了。	It's not nice of you to stop in the middle of what you are saying.
无价之宝	【谚】美德是wu2 jia4 zhi1 bao3。	Virtue is a jewel of great price.
破口大骂	那司机po4kou3 da4ma4挡他的路的行人.	The driver was slanging a pedestrian who had got in his way.
忍耐力	他生病的整个阶段都表现出非凡的ren3nai4li4。	He showed remarkable endurance throughout his illness.
一望无际	草原向四周伸展, yi1wang4-wu2ji4.	The prairies stretch on all sides as far as the eye can see.
吉普车	一辆旧ji2pu3che1沿路迤逦而来。	An old jeep is putter along the road.
蘸	我希望用些虾子酱zhan4着吃。	I'd like some shrimp-roe soy sauce with it.
里根	苏联外长谢瓦尔德纳泽星期五来华盛顿。他将带给Li3gen1一封戈尔巴乔夫的亲笔信……。你尽可以打赌一定是有关几乎吹的高峰会。	Soviet foreign minister Eduard Shevardnadze is coming to Washington on Friday. He'll be bringing Ronald Reagan a letter from Mikhail Gorbachev himself…But you can bet the rent it'll be about the summit that almost wasn't.
冒牌货	修车厂雇用琼斯做修理工，但发现他是mao4pai2huo4后，就把他解雇了。	The garage hired Jones as a mechanic, but fired him when they found he was sailing under false colours.
负有	我对此混乱情况fu4you3全部[部分]责任.	I am wholly/partly responsible for the confusion.
食物中毒	肠毒素由只限于肠结胸的细菌而产生的毒素，引起呕吐和腹泻并导致shi2wu4 zhong4du2	A toxin produced by bacteria that is specific for intestinal cells and causes the vomiting and diarrhea associated with food poisoning.
步调	大都市外面的生活bu4diao4往往是缓慢得多，这在其他国家也是真的那样。	Often life is much slower outside the big cities, as is true in other countries as well.
沙特阿拉伯	如果一项促进和平的安排开始进行，Sha1te4 A1la1bo2将直接参与有关航运及污染等地区性问题的多边谈判。	If a peace process got under way, Saudi Arabia would participate directly in multilateral talks about such problems of regional concern as shipping and pollution.
窟窿	撞了个ku1long5的油船正在喷油。	The holed tanker was disgorging oil.
剧毒	ju4du2的，致命的极度传染性的、恶性的或ju4du2的，用于疾病或毒素	Extremely infectious, malignant, or poisonous. Used of a disease or toxin.
严刑	他身上的一处处伤痕证明他曾受到yan2xing2拷打。	His scars bore witness to the torture he had suffered.
用法	这种yong4fa3现亦逐渐多见於现在时态。	It is also increasingly found in the present tense.
外援	倘若wai4yuan2枯竭，形势将极为严重。	If foreign aid dries up the situation will be desperate.
失策	谢绝他的好意未免shi1ce4.	It might be impolitic to refuse his offer.
如画	边陲山区的风光美丽ru2hua4。	The mountains in the border area are as beautiful as a painting.
德里	该机在飞往De2li3的途中遭到劫持.	The plane was highjacked while on a flight to Delhi.
入迷	约翰已经著手集邮, 好像真ru4mi2了.	John's taken up stamp-collecting; he seems really bitten by it.
宜人	这个花园布局很好, 有许多yi2ren2小径.	The garden is well laid out, with many pleasant walks.
调换	无论如何我也不同他diao4huan4地方。	I would not change places with him for all the world.
侵占	他的新房子qin1zhan4了我的土地。	His new house encroached on my land.
华府	以下是他在Hua2fu3所发表的那篇著名的演讲中的一些摘录。	What follows is some excerpts of the famous speech he delivered in Washington D.C.
诱骗	他被假情报you4pian4进入敌区。	He was decoyed by a false message into enemy territory.
长征	在这张地图上chang2zheng1路线是用红线标示出来的。	The route of the Long March is lined out in red on the map.
倒转	回旋使一个做直线运动的物体减速、停滞或dao4zhuan3的一种旋转，尤指一个球	A spin that tends to retard, arrest, or reverse the linear motion of an object, especially of a ball.
计谋	她未曾想到这ji4mou2反倒使她自食其果.	The scheme rebounded on her in a way she had not expected.
痛打	那个小男孩不得不按吩咐的去做，否则他哥哥要将他tong4da3一顿。	The little boy had to do as he was told or his brother would have knocked him into the middle of next week.
攀升	减去食物与能源的费用以后——这两项每月可能大幅变动——成品制造价格指数仍以略快的速度pan1sheng1百分零点四，相形之下，四月份仅上升零点二。	After subtracting food and energy costs, which can vary widely each month, the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods still rose at a moderately fast clip of four-tenths of1 percent, compared with a two-tenth rises in April.
熨斗	yun4dou3压在湿布上时发出嘶嘶声。	The iron hissed as it pressed the wet cloth.
撅	那男孩子jue1过屁股来挨藤条打.	The boy bent over to be caned.
烟熏	那个男人被发现患有传染病，因此他的房子必须用yan1xun1来消毒。	The man was found to have an infectious disease, so his house had to be fumigated.
维和	戴wei2he2我是同事。	David and I are colleagues.
窑	在yao2里烧制陶器	Burn clay pots in a kiln.
个中	她向一ge4zhong1国教员学习英语。	She learned English from a Chinese teacher.
增幅	当局答应给护士增加5%的工资, 但她们坚持要得到7%的zeng1fu2.	The nurses have been offered an extra 5%, but they're standing out for a 7% pay rise.
漠然	我们不应该对贫穷的孩子mo4ran2不顾。	We should not show apathy towards the poor children.
检举	近来有几起毒品走私活动被jian3ju3立案.	There have been several successful prosecutions for drug smuggling recently.
蝌蚪	ke1dou3有尾巴。	A tadpole has a tail.
定向	本体感受由身体本身的内部刺激引起的对于运动和空间ding4xiang4的不自觉的感受	The unconscious perception of movement and spatial orientation arising from stimuli within the body itself.
弄脏	别把镜头nong4zang1了, 我刚刚擦过.	Don't smear the lens; I've just polished it.
响尾蛇	向导要我们特别留神，因为附近有xiang3wei3she2。	The guide told us to look sharp because there are rattlesnakes around.
圣水	神父把sheng4shui3洒在婴儿的额头上.	The priest sprinkled holy water on the baby's forehead.
常春藤	chang2chun1teng2沿着墙壁蔓延。	Ivy crept along the walls.
所罗门	suo3 luo2 men2国王的宫廷以其华丽著称。	The court of King Solomon was noted for its splendor.
笔试	教师们评我的bi3shi4试卷不及格。	The teachers failed me on the written paper.
刻画	悲剧式作品ke4hua4或描写灾难性事件的剧作、电影、电视节目或其它叙事作品，有不幸的但意味深长的结局	A play, film, television program, or other narrative work that portrays or depicts calamitous events and has an unhappy but meaningful ending.
资本家	他是一个贪婪的zi1ben3jia1。	He is a greedy capitalist.
乐呵呵	你妈妈是个le4he1he1的容易相处的人。	Your mother is a jolly, easy-going woman.
北纬	这个岛的纬度是bei3wei3三十度。	The latitude of the island is 30 degrees north.
足球赛	在这场zu2qiu2sai4中，他主罚，踢进了一个球。	He kicked a penalty goal in the football match.
马来	吉隆坡Ma3lai2西亚的首都和最大城市，位于Ma3lai2半岛的西南部、新加坡西北。于1857年由锡矿工人建立，现为该国的商业和工业中心。人口937，817	The capital and largest city of Malaysia, on the southwest Malay Peninsula northwest of Singapore. Founded by tin miners in1857, it is the commercial and industrial hub of the country. Population, 937,817.
名列	她在国内第一流指挥家中ming2lie4榜首.	She ranks foremost among the country's leading conductors.
好胜	竞争，hao4sheng4心争取赶上或超过另一个的努力或野心	Effort or ambition to equal or surpass another.
如释重负	我还了抵押借款, ru2 shi4 zhong4fu4!	Paying my mortgage was an enormous weight off my mind!
快跑	kuai4pao3，不然你要迟到了。	Run or else you'll be late.
供水	他们使河流改道以便向城市gong1shui3。	They diverted the river to supply water to the town.
负伤	黎明前，这个fu4shang1的男人被神秘地带出了庄园宅邸。	Before dawn the wounded man is spirited away from the house.
摇椅	他坐在yao2yi3里前后摇晃着。	He rocked back and forth in his rocking chair.
油轮	you2lun2沉没了，石油污染了海面。	The tanker sank and the oil polluted the sea.
船头	一艘拖轮牵引着那条船的chuan2tou2把它转了个方向。	A tug pulled the bow of the ship round.
易于	实践与理论一样重要，但是我们yi4yu2珍视后者而轻视前者。	Practice is as important as theory, but we are apt to value the latter and despise the former.
调配	我们不断进行实验, 直至将所需颜色diao4pei4成功.	We experimented until we succeeded in mixing the right colour.
不动产	他拥有许多bu4dong4chan3。	He possesses a lot of immovable real property.
莴苣	我喜欢夏天吃wo1ju4，我的兔子也喜欢。	I like to eat lettuce in summer, and so does my rabbit.
鞭打	如果发现农奴私自同居，就会受到残酷bian1da3。	If slaves were found living together secretly, they were cruelly whipped.
耕	geng1者正在geng1田。	The cultivator is furrowing land.
逗号	别再争辩dou4hao4的用法了.	Stop quibbling about the use of the comma.
远东	销售经理想在Yuan3dong1开辟新市场。	The sales manager wants to open up new markets in the Far East.
痛痛快快	我们在海滨tong4tong5kuai4kuai4地玩了一天。	We spent a heavenly day at the beach.
劳动者	最贫贱的lao2dong4zhe3享有和最富的地主同样的权利.	The meanest labourer has the same rights as the richest landowner.
头子	这些被警察抓住的犯罪分子只是些小鱼，他们的tou2zi5却跑掉了。	These criminals arrested by the police are only minnows, their leader has escaped.
到齐	在大家dao4qi2之後两小时，她终於姗姗来到。	She finally drifted in two hours after everyone else.
停住	汽车在离墙不到一英寸的地方ting2zhu5了。	The car stopped within a fraction of an inch of the wall.
红线	这张地图上的hong2xian4代表铁路。	The red lines on the map represent railways.
誓词	法庭中使用的shi4ci2有固定的格式.	There is a standard form of oath used in lawcourts.
敌机	di2ji1在地面滑行时机首着地翻身撞毁了。	The enemy plane nosed over and was damaged.
酿	整件事niang4成了激烈的争吵.	The whole thing turned into a bitter quarrel.
小淘气	哪个xiao3tao2qi4干的聪明事, 让水龙头开了一夜.	Some bright spark has left the tap running all night.
充饥	为了避免饿死，那些迷路的勘探人员吃鸟蛋chong1ji1。	The lost explorers ate birds' eggs to stave off starvation.
四面八方	风从si4mian4-ba1fang1吹来.	The wind blew from all quarters.
筛	她正在把米过shai1，好把石头shai1出。	She is sieving the rice in order to sieve out the stones.
会馆	俱乐部hui4guan3提供这样方便的建筑物	A building housing such facilities.
队列	在系统中等待处理的一组或一dui4lie4新信息，主调度程序对该dui4lie4及其它dui4lie4进行扫描，使之顺序进入处理状态。	A queue of new messages(or a group) within a system that are awaiting processing. The main scheduling routine will scan them along with other queues and order them into processing in order.
敲定	参加协商的人花了十个小时才qiao1ding4一桩生意。	It take the negotiator ten hours to nail down a deal.
抠	小心点，哈里，你再这样盯着别的女人，她会把你的眼珠kou1出来。	Be careful, Harry, she'll scratch your eyes out if you so much as glance at another woman.
标致	他得意地领著他那biao1zhi5的伴侣遛公园.	He proudly promenaded his elegant companion in the park.
以南	苏丹非洲北部一地区，位于赤道以北，撒哈拉大沙漠yi3nan2，从大西洋沿岸横贯大陆至埃塞俄比亚山脉	A region of northern Africa south of the Sahara and north of the equator. It extends across the continent from the Atlantic coast to the mountains of Ethiopia.
料子	这件连衣裙的liao4zi5含80%尼龙.	This dress is 80% nylon.
家禽	我把现有的jia1qin2饲养方面的资料全都读过了.	I've read all the available literature on poultry-farming.
吃不消	这麽紧张, 我的神经快chi1bu5xiao1了.	My nerves won't stand the strain much longer.
体坛	她被指定为本年度的ti3tan2明星。	She was designated sportswoman of the year.
夜莺	这只ye4ying1夜里唱得很好听。	The nightingale sings sweetly at night.
转来转去	那狮子在这群鹿四周zhuan3lai2zhuan3qu4，等待着时机进攻。	The lion circled about the family of deer, waiting to attack.
机翼	翼剖面；ji1yi4；翼面一个部件或平面，如ji1yi4、螺旋桨叶、方向舵等，其形状或方位控制稳定性、方向、抬升、冲击或驱动	A part or surface, such as a wing, propeller blade, or rudder, whose shape and orientation control stability, direction, lift, thrust, or propulsion.
超负荷	电灯灭了, 因线路上用电器chao1fu4he4把保险丝烧断了.	The lights fused because the system was overloaded with electrical appliances.
郊游	在野外jiao1you2时老师常看护着班上的学生。	Teachers often chaperon their classes on field trips.
民歌	选集min2ge1选集或诗歌选集	An anthology, as of ballads or poems.
脚踏	jiao3ta4旋转平台一种由一圆形小平台组成的游乐场设备，当推动它或踩其踏板时能够转动	A piece of playground equipment consisting of a small circular platform that revolves when pushed or pedaled.
小节	双拍子的每xiao3jie2含有两拍或偶数拍的	Consisting of two or a multiple of two beats to the measure.
草木	在工厂后面的荒地上突然长出了cao3mu4。	Greenery has sprouted out in the waste land behind the factory.
蓬勃	一位活跃在10世纪的无名诗人；在印象主义最peng2bo2的时期作画	An anonymous poet who flourished in the tenth century; painted when Impressionism was flourishing.
库房	不过现在它们已经被改建，用作ku4fang2或粮仓了。	But now they have been adapted for use as storehouses or granaries.
远航	他们为yuan3hang2的船只准备了食品和必需品。	They provisioned the ship for a long voyage.
支队	前哨派驻在离主力部队很远的地带的zhi1dui4以防敌人的偷袭	A detachment of troops stationed at a distance from a main force to guard against surprise attacks.
音节	简短的旋律一种简短的旋律，和着同一种调子演唱或吟诵一组yin1jie2和歌词	A short, simple melody in which a number of syllables or words are sung on or intoned to the same note.
进出口	jin4-chu1kou3的高关税是国际贸易的障碍。	Heavy duties on imports and exports are a barrier to international trade.
供货	我们或是寻求gong1huo4，或者自己制造。	Either we will find a supply, or we will make the goods.
苍穹	在中世纪时期，诗人常把天空叫作“cang1qiong2”。	In medieval times, poets often called the sky ""the vault of heaven"".
免职	那位官员必须mian3zhi2。	That officer must be removed.
尖头	公园的栏杆上有很多jian1tou2。	There are many sharp spikes on the railings in the park.
应答	数据通信中，由接收方向发送方传送ying4da2字符作为肯定回答的传输过程。	In data communications, the transmission by a receiver of acknowledge characters as an affirmative response to a sender.
煎蛋	一旦你掌握了jian1dan4饼的技巧, 做起来就很容易了.	Making an omelette is easy once you've got the knack (of it).
横竖	围棋日本的一种两人棋戏，用棋子在一heng2shu4皆有十九条交叉线的棋盘上下	A Japanese game for two, played with counters on a board that is ruled with19 vertical and19 horizontal lines.
喜鹊	xi3que4“嘁嘁喳喳”叫。	A magpie chatters.
温饱	他连wen1bao3都无法解决, 就更不用说娱乐了。	He hasn't enough money for food, let alone amusements.
自夸	他喜欢zi4kua1。	He's given to boasting.
西北部	这座城市位于加拿大的xi1bei3bu4。	The city is located in the northwest part of Canada.
古装	人们穿著gu3zhuang1参加游行.	People wore historical costumes for the parade.
截肢	jie2zhi1之後安装了义肢.	A prosthesis was fitted after the amputation.
灵巧	她用ling2qiao3的双手为我织了一副手套。	She knitted a pair of mittens for me with her nimble fingers.
畅销书	他正在写他的最新chang4xiao1shu1的续集。	He is writing a sequel to his latest best seller.
加利福尼亚州	她在西部（如Jia1li4fu2ni2ya4zhou1）到现在已住了十年了.	She's lived in the West (eg California) for ten years now.
矿井	平峒通往kuang4jing3的几乎水平的入口	An almost horizontal entrance to a mine.
宇宙飞船	那艘yu3zhou4 fei1chuan2溅落在太平洋中.	The spacecraft splashed down in the Pacific.
一个个	他们yi1ge4ge4都跑了, 把我撇下了!	Every man jack of them ran off and left me!
剧作家	这个ju4zuo4jia1受到了本国人民的尊敬。	The dramatist was respected by people in his country.
分给	她把钱均fen1gei3两个孩子.	She portioned out the money equally between both children.
湿透	他浑身shi1tou4。	He was every inch drenched.
陆陆续续	起先，大厅里挤得满满的，但是他一开始讲话，人们便lu4lu4xu4xu4离去，不一会儿，剩下听他发言的人便寥寥无几了。	At first the hall was full, but people began to trickle out soon after the beginning of his speech, and soon there were very few left to hear the speaker.
代理商	寄送，托运派遣或寄送船只给dai4li3shang1店或代理人的行为	The act of dispatching or consigning a ship, as to an agent or a factor.
四方	四条林荫大道从那广场向si4fang1延伸。	Four avenues radiate from the square.
方程	在优化问题中，一种表示若干变量相互关系的fang1cheng2（式）或不等式。	An equation or inequality relating the variables in an optimization problem.
惯用	他又拿出guan4yong4的借口，说他太忙了。	He came out with his staple excuse that he was too busy.
公演	这出戏gong1yan3时，当地报纸对它评价不佳。	When the play opened, the local press gave it the thumbs down.
拖拉	畏缩不前的或落后的；迟误tuo1la1的	Hanging back or falling behind; dilatory.
守门员	shou3men2yuan2用手掌将球托出了球门的横木。	The goalkeeper just managed to palm the ball over the crossbar.
轻便	她和母亲坐着qing1bian4双轮马车去购物。	She and her mother got on the gig to go shopping.
死后	这个人一想起si3hou4的永久惩罚就颤抖不已。	The man trembled whenever he thought of the perdition.
按下	这个水壶上的开关an4xia5时卡不住了。	The switch on the kettle won't stay down.
省份	稻子是大多数南方sheng3fen4的主要作物。	Rice is the chief crop in most southern provinces.
镀	du4层有的地方已经磨掉了.	The plating is beginning to wear off in places.
枪决	船员夺船未遂, 均以叛乱罪被qiang1jue2.	The crew tried to seize control of the ship, and were shot for mutiny.
开演	在等待kai1yan3的时候，演员们十分紧张	The performers were edgy as they waited for the show to begin.
口琴	那个kou3qin2质量很好。	The harmonica is of very high quality.
长凳	一位老人坐在公园的chang2deng4上喂鸽子。	An old man sat on the park bench and fed the pigeon.
颂歌	欢乐的歌手们正在唱song4ge1。	Merry songsters are singing carols.
使用权	土地的，耕地的；土地所有制的关于土地和土地所有制、耕种和shi3yong4quan2的	Relating to or concerning the land and its ownership, cultivation, and tenure.
收容	不久克里特将接纳shou1rong2你，那是养育了我的地方，我们的新房也将安的那里。	So Crete shall presently receive thee, Crete that was mine own foster-mother, where thy bridal chamber shall be.
弧线	太阳看起来在天空以hu2xian4运行。	The sun appears to move in an arc across the sky.
去取	我们可以在话剧开演前一小时qu4qu3票.	We can pick up the tickets an hour before the play begins.
寄出	我以为他母亲已去世，幸亏在我ji4chu1吊唁信之前，我碰到了一个那天上午还在医院里见过她母亲的人，他使我避免了这场误会。	I thought his mother had died, but fortunately I met someone who'd actually seen her that morning in the hospital and he set me right before I sent off my letter of sympathy.
空余	他把kong4yu2时间都用在园艺上了, 没有任何其他爱好.	He spent his spare time gardening, to the exclusion of all other interests.
零碎	让我把我的ling2sui4东西收拾起来。	Let me get my bits and pieces together.
冷气	就在这些季节里，热气团与leng3qi4团的温差最大。	It is during these seasons that the differences in temperature between warm and cold masses of air are greatest.
风浪	那只船正与feng1lang4搏斗。	The ship is combating the wind and waves.
生产线	我们的豆腐sheng1chan3xian4是世界上最为先进的，久负盛名。	Our bean curd processing line is the most advanced and well- know in the world.
诗集	他的shi1ji2去年发表了。	His poetry was published last year.
渡船	他到了渡口，却发现du4chuan2在对岸。	He went down to the ferry but found the boat on the other side.
入会	她仅超过年龄限制一天，因此组织者通融了一下，接受她ru4hui4。	She was only one day over the age limit so the organizers bent the rules and accepted her entry.
正统	基本原理一个学科、学派或一门科学的zheng4tong3的、起指导作用的原则	The formal, guiding principles of a discipline, school, or science.
急急忙忙	别ji2ji2mang2mang2的, 慢慢来.	Don't rush: take your time.
获准	他huo4zhun3可以不去听讲。	He was excused from attendance at the lecture.
野鸡	禽鸟一种鸟，如鸭、鹅、火鸡或ye3ji1，用作食物或狩猎的猎物	A bird, such as the duck, goose, turkey, or pheasant, that is used as food or hunted as game.
锈	xiu4与酸都是腐蚀性的。	Rust and acids are corrosive.
绞	他悲伤地jiao3紧双手。	He wrung his hands in sorrow.
瞥	他偷偷pie1了她一眼.	He cast a furtive glance at her.
警铃	jing3ling2响起, 顾客纷纷（从银行）逃走.	The customers fled (from the bank) when the alarm sounded.
计时器	定时器一种ji4shi2qi4，尤指控制时间间隔并指示间隔结束的那种ji4shi2qi4，如炉子上的ji4shi2qi4	A timepiece, especially one used for measuring and signaling the end of time intervals, as on a stove.
西面	这场雨是从xi1mian4来的.	The rain is coming from the west.
基督教徒	圣诞节是Ji1du1jiao4tu2的一个重要节日。	Christmas is an important feast for Christians.
传开	她死去的消息迅速chuan2kai1。	The news of her death circulated quickly.
声波	sheng1bo1是根据其振幅来测量的.	Sound waves are measured by their amplitude.
扬起	我们走时车子yang2qi3了一阵尘土。	The car raised quite a dust as we drove off.
原定	yuan2ding4砍伐的那棵树已经推迟六个月再砍.	The tree that was due to be cut down has been reprieved for six months.
捕猎	那个设陷阱bu3lie4的人孤独地生活在山里。	The trapper leads a solitary life in the mountains.
和好	我们试图让她和她的家庭he2hao3。	We tried to reconcile her with her family.
名贵	在他的酒类收藏中有一些ming2gui4的陈年葡萄酒。	He have some rare old vintage in his collection of wine.
观测	旋标装置飞机控制板上的指示器或guan1ce4仪，用来测量角度	An indicator or a sighting apparatus on a plane table, used in angular measurement.
水仙花	你那只狗竟然把我的shui3xian1hua1全给扒出来了。	That dog of yours has been and dug up all my daffodils!
婆婆妈妈	那孩子见他妈妈当着同学们的面亲亲热热、po2po5ma1ma1的对待他，感到害臊，不知如何是好。	The child was ashamed of the affectionate fuss his mother was making of him in front of his schoolmates and didn't know where to turn his eyes.
马戏	他请求他母亲答应他去看ma3xi4。	He pleaded with his mother to allow him to go to the circus.
软膏	把这种ruan3gao1搽在皮肤上，让它渗进去。	Rub the cream on your skin and let it sink in.
受阻	乘火车的旅客要长时间shou4zu3.	There will be prolonged delays for rail travellers.
总有	我们星期六的午饭zong3you3一道油煎菜.	We always have a fry-up for Saturday lunch.
多事	为了我们理解，老师列举了很duo1shi4例。	The teacher enumerated many examples to us for understanding.
追悼会	人们经常在葬礼和zhui1dao4hui4上见到他。	He was often seen at funerals and memorials.
业务员	他是一位很有能力的ye4wu4yuan2，可不是吗？	He's a capable businessman, is he?
阿拉伯语	他显示了对A1la1bo2yu3的精通。	He demonstrated a mastery of Arabic.
砸死	那座大楼倒塌时把下面的很多人都za2si3了.	Many people were crushed when the building collapsed on top of them.
本文	没有（别的）一ben3wen2法书比这一本更受高中生的欢迎。	No grammar book is more popular than this one with senior high school students.
魔法师	mo2fa3shi1非常神秘。	The enchanter is very mysterious.
在即	大选zai4ji2, 主要政党间的论战愈演愈烈.	As the election approaches the war of words between the main political parties becomes increasingly intense.
算盘	那位职员用suan4pan5将上周的花销计算出来。	The clerk reckoned the expenditure last week with an abacus.
私有	有些人想将si1you3大麻合法化.	Some people want to legalize the possession of cannabis.
民用	我在攻读min2yong4建筑专业的硕士学位。	I am working on a master's degree in civil architecture.
热力	该项装置是按照re4li4上升的原理运转的。	The system works on the principle that heat rises.
洞口	一只老鼠从黑暗的dong4kou3跑出。	A mouse ran out from the dark orifice of the cave.
化学品	农药，农用hua4xue2pin3用来增加作物产量的hua4xue2pin3，如激素、杀菌剂、杀虫剂	A chemical, such as a hormone, a fungicide, or an insecticide, that improves the production of crops.
所剩无几	火灾过後, 寒舍suo3 sheng4 wu2 ji3.	After the fire, very little remained of my house.
权杖	市长的quan2zhang4是权威的象征。	The mayor has a mace which is held as a sign of authority.
画笔	hua4bi3用于画画的刷子	A brush for applying paint.
粗野	他这样cu1ye3，我真想揍他。	I'd a good mind to smack him for being so rude!
公用电话	碰巧在附近有个gong1yong4 dian4hua4亭。	It happened that there was a telephone booth nearby.
各国	该组织旨在促进ge4guo2之间的友谊.	The organizationworks to promote friendship between nations.
所属	新牧师访问了他教堂suo3shu3的各个家庭的每个成员，以便更好地了解他们。	The new minister called on each of the families of his church in order to become better acquainted with them.
银器	酸把yin2qi4的表面腐蚀了。	Acid had pitted the surface of the silver.
花店	格雷在一小块地下开始种花，如今他的生意确实十分红火，英格兰各地都有他的hua1dian4。	Gray started growing flowers on a small piece of land. Now he has really made it big and owns flower shops all over England.
装甲车	在师主力部队之前先行派出zhuang1jia3che1去侦察敌军的活动。	Armoured cars were sent ahead of the main body of the division lo spot enemy troop movements.
真相大白	他散布流言蜚语危害很大, 事後才zhen1xiang4 da4bai2.	His malicious gossip caused much mischief until the truth became known.
养分	土壤中的yang3fen4能促进植物生长.	The nutrient in the soil acts as a stimulus to growth/to make the plants grow.
省长	他当上了sheng3zhang3.	He established himself as governor of the province.
不甘心	我决bu4 gan1xin1忍受这种待遇。	I refuse to take such a treatment lying down.
区间	粒面的在明暗qu1jian1有显著分界的；不平滑的。用于相片和电影胶片	Having sharp divisions between light and dark patches; not smooth. Used of photographs and film.
间歇	一连串的持续跳动以数量短促而突然的变化为特征的一系列jian4xie1性出现	Any of a series of intermittent occurrences characterized by a brief, sudden change in a quantity.
背离	我决不bei4li2我已经宣布的在这个问题上的政策。	I will never swerve from my declared policy on this matter.
潮汐	月球对地球的吸引力造成chao2xi1。	The attraction of the moon for the earth causes the tides.
野花	兰花和报春花之类的ye3hua1越来越少了.	Wild flowers such as orchids and primroses are becoming rare.
松散	信号旗song1san3地从桅杆上垂下来	A pennant lolling from the mast.
末期	山路要到春季mo4qi1才能通行.	The mountain roads are not passable until late spring.
举棋不定	要是你老这样ju3 qi2 bu4 ding4, 我们就来不及了.	If you keep shilly-shallying like this we'll be late.
冒失	有个学生真mao4shi5, 竟然和教授争论起来.	One student made so bold as to argue with the professor.
寒酸	品质低劣的；han2suan1的	Of inferior quality; shabby.
生硬	他给了她一个简短sheng1ying4的回答.	He gave her a short answer.
要闻	我们的本周报纸yao4wen2回顾由《时代》周刊编辑主持.	Our review of this week's papers is presented by the editor of The Times'.
余粮	除了卖给国家的yu2liang2外，这个大队还建立了自己的粮食储备。	Above the surplus grain sold to the state, the brigade built up a good grain reserve of its own.
光洁	水色宝石的透明度及guang1jie2度	The transparency and luster of a gem.
汁液	他把花茎折断，zhi1ye4就流了出来。	The sap flowed out when he broke the stem of the flower.
平整	先把地ping2zheng3好再植草坪.	The ground should be levelled before you plant a lawn.
露宿	他在沟里和草堆里lu4su4了一个星期。	He'd been sleeping rough for a week, in ditches and haystacks.
税务局	shui4wu4ju2负责徵收所得税.	The Inland Revenue is responsible for collecting income tax.
附着	fu4zhuo2的与同类的部分或组织粘着但不融合的	Sticking to but not fused with a part or an organ of the same kind.
公用	那城市有自己的gong1yong4图书馆和公园。	The town has its own public library and public gardens.
目不转睛	他在办公室里老是mu4 bu4 zhuan3 jing1地盯著我，真把我气坏了。	I'm extremely annoyed at the way he always stares at me in the office.
连绵	现在要阴雨lian2mian2下个不停了。	It is settling in to rain now.
起跑	在赛跑时让年龄小的男生提早了10秒钟qi3pao3.	The smaller boys were given a start of 10 seconds in the race.
保险丝	bao3xian3si1盒子在厨房里。	The fuse-box is in the kitchen.
繁重	由于海关征收fan2zhong4的紧急关税，使得我们处于极其困难的境地。	The imposition of heavy emergency custom duties have render our position exceedingly difficult.
两口子	liang3kou3zi5争得够呛，弄得咱们一晚上没眨眼皮。	The couple had a heck of an argument and kept us awake all night.
愤慨	他们对他们的老师感到强烈fen4kai3。	They felt strong indignation against their teacher.
谨防	我必须告诫你应jin3fang2危险。	I must caution you against the danger.
焊接	这辆汽车han4jie1了一个新的翼子板。	The car has had a new wing welded on.
泥浆	请帮我脱掉这满是ni2jiang1的靴子。	Please help me to draw off these muddy boots.
赦	那些囚犯获she4释放.	The convicts were pardoned and set free.
消瘦	衰弱的由于久病等脆弱和xiao1shou4的；衰弱的	Frail and enfeebled, as from prolonged illness; emaciated.
不列颠	你知道Bu4lie4dian1群岛的位置吗？	Do you know the locations of the British Isles?
玩忽职守	他因wan2hu1-zhi2shou3而被开除了。	He is dismissed for neglecting of duty.
锁链	那头凶猛的狮子一下子就挣脱了suo3lian4。	The fierce lion burst free from the chains.
船尾	辅助帆一片被绷在船头或chuan2wei3以增进航行区域的油布	A strip of canvas laced to a fore-and-aft sail to increase sail area.
危地马拉	蒂卡尔Wei1di4ma3la1北部的一座玛雅废城，曾是玛雅城市中最大也可能最古老的一座。挖掘和修复该废墟的工作始于1956年	A ruined Mayan city of northern Guatemala. It was the largest of the Mayan cities and may also be the oldest. Excavation and restoration of the ruins began in1956.
所有者	资产阶级在马克思的理论中，suo3you3zhe3阶层的一员；资本家	In Marxist theory, a member of the property-owning class; a capitalist.
捂	他用手帕wu3著鼻子.	He pressed a handkerchief to his nose.
反攻	现在，我们应乘机fan3gong1。	We should seize the opportunity to counterattack.
短语	英国习语，英国特有用词，英国式的语言现象英语，尤其是在英语口语中所特有的单词、duan3yu3或习惯用语；英国式语言现象	A word, a phrase, or an idiom peculiar to the English language, especially as spoken in England; a Briticism.
刑罚	缓刑对已被认定犯有某罪的人实行暂缓执行其xing2fa2，并在其保证良好行为的基础上给予暂时的自由	The act of suspending the sentence of a person convicted of a criminal offense and granting that person provisional freedom on the promise of good behavior.
大吃	那个胖子经常da4chi1甜食。	The fat man gorged himself constantly with enormous desserts.
一文不值	我花了５０英镑在商场上买了一件所谓的便宜瓷器，结果却是yi1wen2bu4zhi2。我只得把此事引以为训。	I paid fifty pounds in the market for a so-called bargain piece of porcelain which turned out to be worthless; I'll just have to chalk it up to experience.
扫射	他们用机枪sao3she4进攻的敌军.	They machine-gunned the advancing troops.
逆流	我们的船ni4liu2而上。	Our ship stemmed on against the current.
丑事	村子里的居民知道这件chou3shi4。	The villagers knew about the scandal.
高深	该教授正进行gao1shen1的学术研究。	The professor is engaged in advanced studies.
自私自利	他是个zi4si1-zi4li4的人。	He is a lump of selfishness.
球拍	qiu2pai1用于各种运动的qiu2pai1，如乒乓球和网球的qiu2pai1	The racket used in various games, such as table tennis or racquets.
锅炉	guo1lu2爆炸了。	The boiler blew up.
外侧	山自然形成的高出于地面的一块高地，占地广大，通常wai4ce4陡峻且比丘陵要高	A natural elevation of the earth's surface having considerable mass, generally steep sides, and a height greater than that of a hill.
扳平	她要赢得这一分才能将比分ban1ping2.	She needs to win this point to level the score.
孩提	我在故乡度过了自己的hai2ti2时代。	I spent my early childhood in my hometown.
暮色	mu4se4四合, 渐而一片漆黑.	Twilight merged into total darkness.
票据	piao4ju4交换结算总额piao4ju4交换所中每天进行的交易总额	The total of claims presented daily at a clearing-house.
了当	这艘船拆毁liao3dang4废铁用.	The ship was broken up for scrap metal.
被单	把bei4dan1好好煮一煮，好让它们白一些。	Give the sheets a good boil to get them white.
晨报	chen2bao4刊载了这个故事。所有传媒都报道了这次记者招待会	The morning papers carried the story. The press conference was carried by all networks.
隐喻	她在运用yin3yu4方面有独创性。	She has a striking originality in her use of metaphor.
绝种	恐龙已jue2zhong3几百万年了。	Dinosaurs have been extinct for millions of years.
避风港	我能看到他们的家依旧是那个地方孤独的和无家可归的人的bi4feng1gang3。	I could see that as of old their house was a port of call for all the lonely and the lost of the district.
品行	我恨他那讨厌的pin3xing2。	I hate his obnoxious behavior.
双眼	谈到他的情人时, 他的shuang1yan3闪烁着光芒。	Speaking of his lover, his eyes sparkled.
死气沉沉	那是一场si3qi4 chen2chen2的演出。	It was a lifeless performance.
吊车	diao4che1一种通常配有联接在传送带上的吊桶或戽斗，用来举起材料	A mechanism, often with buckets or scoops attached to a conveyor, used for hoisting materials.
缀	我在给蛋糕最后加一点点zhui4。	I'm just putting the finishing touches to the cake.
烂泥	一辆重型卡车在建筑工地入口处的lan4ni2中吃力地移动着。	A heavy lorry was floundering around in the thick mud at the entrance to the.building site.
暗影	中间色，半调色在光线最强处与黑色an4ying3之间的一种色调或明暗的配合	A tone or value halfway between a highlight and a dark shadow.
切莫	【谚】今天能够做的事，qie4mo4拖延到明天。	Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today.
货源	本星期买胡萝卜和洋白菜最合算，因huo4yuan2充足，价格低廉。	Best buy of the week are carrot and cabbage, which are plentiful and cheap.
请愿书	该qing3yuan4shu1奉命暂搁一边，以后讨论。	The petition was ordered to lie on the table.
俚语	li3yu3，是脱下上衣、吐一口唾沫在掌上、跟着就着手工作的语言。	Slang is language that takes off its coat, spits on its hands, and goes to work.
新闻界	xin1wen2jie4的力量非常大。	The power of the press is very great.
殷勤	他yin1qin2地侍候她。	He danced attendance on her.
苦果	那次失败是一次难以吞咽的ku3guo3。	The defeat was a bitter pill to swallow.
拘谨	他对任何人都很ju1jin3，从不跟人说笑。	He is very formal with everyone; he never joins in a laugh.
创造者	每个人都是自己命运的chuang4zao4zhe3。	Everyone is the architect of his own fortune.
滑铁卢	Hua2tie3lu2战役的遗址在比利时。	The site of the battle of Waterloo is in Belgium.
圣贤	孔子被认为是中国古代最伟大的sheng4xian2。	Confucius is considered the greatest of the ancient Chinese sages.
塔楼	堡垒往往带有ta3lou2。	A fortress often has turrets.
蟾蜍	chan2chu2外表丑陋，但很有用。	Toads have an ugly appearance but they are useful.
黎巴嫩	在Li2ba1nen4的雪松下吃枣子跟在贝肯街吃炒糊了的豆子一样，都是那么令人乏味。	The bore is the same eating dates under the cedars of Lebanon as over baked beans in Beacon Street.
等同	把他跟他们党内的极端分子deng3tong2看待是不对的--他的观点其实很温和.	It's wrong to bracket him with the extremists in his party his views are very moderate.
颤动	空气似乎随着亮光而chan4dong4。	The air seemed to pulsate with the bright light.
沉积	钙质沉着钙盐chen2ji1于体内某一部件或组织的不正常状况	An abnormal condition in which calcium salts are deposited in a part or tissue of the body.
代表性	该饭店展示了一些具有dai4biao3xing4的本地特产。	The hotel displays a representative selection of lovely make product.
噪声	zao4sheng1很大, 她用棉花团把耳朵堵上了.	The noise was so loud that she put wads of cotton wool in her ears.
连贯	对全体学生的功课作出lian2guan4性的评定。	Continuous assessment is made of all students' work.
胶布	你最好给电线裹上绝缘jiao1bu4。	You'd better put some insulating tape on electric wires.
不休	他这个人做事一不做二bu4xiu1--向慈善事业捐款不捐则已, 一捐就是一大笔.	He's not a man who does things by halves -- either he donates a huge sum to a charity or he gives nothing.
隔膜	ge2mo2，隔壁将某一器官，如子房或果实分成几个室的分隔物	A partition dividing an organ, such as an ovary or a fruit, into chambers.
东南部	dong1nan2bu4有风。	The wind is in the southeast.
占地	海洋几乎zhan4di4球表面的四分之三。	The sea covers nearly three-fourths of the world's surface.
五彩缤纷	wu3cai3-bin1fen1的旗子在屋顶上飘扬。	Multi-colored flags were flying over the rooftop.
攻打	侵略者妄图gong1da3我们国家。	The invader wanted to attack our country.
皮子	这鞋刚穿时要是有点紧没关系, 这种pi2zi5很有延展性.	Don't worry if the shoes seem a bit tight at first; the leather has plenty of give in it.
老挝	印度支那半岛东南亚的一个半岛，包括越南、Lao3wo1、柬埔寨、泰国、缅甸和马来西亚的大陆部分。历史上这一片地区曾受印度（尤其是印度教文化）和中国的影响	A peninsula of southeast Asia comprising Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Burma, and the mainland territory of Malaysia. The area was influenced in early times by India(particularly the Hindu culture) and China.
一蹶不振	长期罢工损失巨大致使该公司yi1jue2-bu4zhen4.	The long and costly strike proved to be the last nail in the company's coffin.
启迪	假如你正确地选取了其他念头，假如这个念头的确受到别的领域的情趣的qi3di2。	And if this something else is rightly chosen, if it is really attended by the illumination of another field of interest.
狰狞	野蛮的长相凶恶的或面目zheng1ning2的	Savage or threatening in appearance.
赃款	这帮匪徒通过他们的 连锁饭店洗zang1kuan3.	The gang laundered the stolen money through their chain of restaurants.
分文	我若还清所有欠债就fen1wen2不剩了.	If I pay all my debts I'll have no money left.
器皿	我们所有的玻璃和陶瓷qi4min3都放在柜橱里。	All our glass and china are kept in the cupboard.
信号灯	这辆汽车亮起了危险xin4hao4deng1。	The car had its hazard warning lights on.
香槟酒	他喝著廉价的xiang1bin1jiu3, 样子十分放荡.	He was drinking cheap champagne with a raffish air.
沼泽地	那场战争中很多士兵死于那片zhao3ze2di4。	In that war, many soldiers died in that fen area.
交朋友	戴维觉得（与别的孩子）jiao1 peng2you5是很难的事.	David finds it hard to make friends (with other children).
配给	战时的艰苦包括食物pei4ji3和燃料短缺.	Wartime austerities included food rationing and shortage of fuel.
淫秽	这本书中有很多yin2hui4的语言。	There are much obscene languages in this book.
归档	我们必须把公文gui1dang4工作弄出些条理来.	We must get some method into our office filing.
水门	shui3men2事件包括共和党官员滥用权力、违背公众信任、贿赂、蔑视国会及企图防碍司法的丑闻	A scandal involving abuse of power by public officials, violation of the public trust, bribery, contempt of Congress, and attempted obstruction of justice.
挥动	助人仙女hui1dong4她的魔杖.	The fairy godmother waved her (magic) wand.
波音	用多半尺度衡量，1988年对bo1yin1公司来说都是极好的一年。这一规模庞大的航空公司不但在销售方面创下记录，并积压了大量订单。	By most measures,1988 has been an excellent year for the Boeing Company. The giant aerospace concern has racked up record sales and has a huge backlog of orders.
竖琴	shu4qin2一种有一个通常系有四十六根长短不一的琴弦的直立的开放三角架、弹奏时用手指拨动琴弦的乐器	An instrument consisting of an upright, open triangular frame with usually46 strings of graded lengths played by plucking with the fingers.
刑法	民法与xing2fa3是不同的。	Civil law is different to criminal law.
杜鹃	du4juan1在别的鸟巢中产卵.	The cuckoo lays its eggs in other birds' nests.
门路	现在我们已打开men2lu4，我们希望在中国开辟一个广阔的市场。	Now we've got a foot in the door, we are hoping to open up a big market in China.
父老	为本城fu4lao3乡亲医伤诊病近四十年后，现在，我打算退休，并迁居弗罗里达。	After nearly40 years of patching up the folks of this town, I'm planning to retire and move to Florida.
皮箱	＂这个探测队接着把整个山洞彻底地搜寻了一遍，但是，除了一只空铁pi2xiang1以外什么也没找到。＂	The party then searched the whole cave thoroughly but did not find anything except an empty tin trunk.
选修	现在xuan3xiu1理科的学生少了.	Fewer students are opting for science courses nowadays.
清秀	她的qing1xiu4美丽使他倾倒。	Her comeliness overwhelmed him.
战败	zhan4bai4的消息给小城蒙上了一层忧郁。	The news of defeat cast a gloom over the town.
承蒙	cheng2meng2足下推荐, 我已获得这份工作.	I got the job on the strength of your recommendation.
恒星	有许多heng2xing1比我们的太阳还要大.	There are many suns larger than ours.
贞操	这似乎是一个修女的zhen1cao1誓言。	It seems the vows of chastity belonging to a nun.
兵役	他离开学校后服了两年bing1yi4。	He did a two-year stint in the army when he left school.
酿造	他在家自己niang4zao4啤酒.	He brews his own beer at home.
蜘蛛网	蜘蛛能用zhi1zhu1wang3抓住昆虫。	The spider can catch insects by cobweb.
招致	他的行为zhao1zhi4尖锐的批评。	His behavior called forth sharp criticism.
和声	音乐学生学习给一个现有的调子配上其他音部，还要学习怎样转成he2sheng1调。	Music students learn how to add other parts to add other parts to a given tune, and how to modulate to a related key.
不法	bu4fa3的违反法律的；非法的	Against the law; illegal.
曼彻斯特	这次踢赢之后，Man4che4si1te4联队升入了甲级。	After this win, Manchester United was promoted to the First Division.
阿诺	A1nuo4德在预赛中跑得太好了，因此完全有把握赢得决定的胜利。	Arnold ran so well in the heats that it's a moral certainty he'll win the final race.
游历	他在金鱼缸周围贴上了彩色风景明信片，好让金鱼们以为在you2li4四方。	He pasted picture postcard around goldfish bowl to make the goldfish think they were going place.
填饱	现在该是tian2bao3肚子的时候了。	It's time to satisfy my inner man.
钢琴家	他赢得gang1qin2jia1的声誉。	He won renown as a pianist.
不等	这些鱼的重量从3磅到5磅bu4deng3.	These fish vary in weight from 3 lb to 5 lb.
伊斯兰教	他后来改信了Yi1si1lan2jiao4。	He later turned Moslem.
装腔作势	我看够你zhuang1qiang1-zuo4shi4的表现了.	I've had enough of your dramatics.
成婚	（成交或cheng2hun1时的）握手用来表示诸如合约或婚姻的誓言的一种握手	A handclasp used to signify a pledge, such as a contract or marriage.
作法	进步党人的政见进步党人的原则和zuo4fa3	The principles and practices of political progressives.
公尺	顺着铁路走大约100gong1chi3。	Follow the railroad track about100 meter.
农产品	这个国家很大程度上依靠nong2chan3pin3的出口。	The country is heavily dependent on its exports of agricultural commodities.
便携式	文件已经被输入到一台bian4xie2shi4电脑里了。	The documents have been typed into a portable computer.
紧闭	守口的人一个嘴巴jin3bi4的人，尤指能保守秘密的人	A close-mouthed person, especially one who can keep a secret.
未尝	他成了她的高级顾问--你要说是她的副手也wei4chang2不可.	He became her senior adviser her deputy, if you will.
早逝	她面临可能zao3shi4而手足无措.	She's finding it difficult to face up to the possibility of an early death.
耳目一新	他使公司恢复元气活动的意见如同一股新鲜空气，令人er3mu4-yi1xin1。	His ideas about revitalizing the company's activities are like a breath of fresh air.
赞誉	工作完成後她获得zan4yu4, 但筹备期间的苦活儿全是他干的.	She got the praise for the job but he did all the spadework.
钱夹	她从容地掏出qian2jia1付了一千镑现金, 多麽豪爽!	She just took out her purse and paid a thousand in cash: what a cool customer!
历尽	我们公司在经济衰退时期li4jin4艰辛。	In the recession, our firm go through a bad time.
旧货	快速巡逻艇迅即赶上那艘jiu4huo4船.	The fast cruiser soon overhauled the old cargo boat.
顶点	ding3dian3的在ding3dian3或者最高点的；头的正上方的	Situated at the vertex or highest point; directly overhead.
受精	雄性的精子使雌性的卵子shou4jing1.	The male sperm fertilizes the female egg.
阻隔	无线电通讯已消除了空间的zu3ge2。	Radio communication has annihilated space.
掂量	我是抱着把正反两方面的意见都dian1liang4一下的愿望探讨这个问题的。	I have approached this subject with a desire to weigh the pros and cons connected with it.
有福	《圣经》中有提及英国人的话：“柔顺的人们是you3fu2的，因为他们将会继承大地”。	The English are mentioned in the Bible: Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.
妄图	侵略者wang4tu2攻打我们国家。	The invader wanted to attack our country.
展览会	zhan3lan3hui4上陈列著所有的新产品。	All the new products are on show at the exhibition.
驳	他那有力的论点bo2得对手哑口无言。	His forceful arguments reduced his opponents to silence.
马克思主义	共产主义是以Ma3ke4si1zhu3yi4为基础.	Communism is based on Marxism.
下放	我们把权力xia4fang4, 各省就有更多的自主权.	If we decentralize, the provinces will have more autonomy.
隐士	小的隐居处所狭小、简陋的住所，比如yin3shi4的山洞或棚屋	A small, humble abode, such as a hermit's cave or hut.
移情	yi2qing2作用；情感转移一种防卫机制，情感、影响、愿望从原始目标潜意识地转移到一个立即或更可接受的替代对象	A defense mechanism in which there is an unconscious shift of emotions, affect, or desires from the original object to a more acceptable or immediate substitute.
航程	哥伦布按顺序仔细而详尽地记载了他的各次hang2cheng2。	Columbus kept a careful and detailed chronicle of his voyages.
二等	他以为他的构思最好，可是还是差了一点；它只得了er4deng3奖。	He thought his idea was the best, but it was a near miss; it only won second prize.
双关语	那条广告口号是shuang1guan1yu3.	The advertising slogan was a play on words.
必将	消息若泄露, bi4jiang1有後患.	If the news gets out there'll be trouble.
小心谨慎	在有关钱的问题上，我总是尽量xiao3xin1-jin3shen4。	Where money is concerned, I always try to be very careful.
跛	靠毅力这bo3童学会了游泳。	By perseverance the lame boy learned to swim.
荒岛	公主被那个可恶的魔术师偷偷带到了一个huang1dao3上。	The princess was spirited off to a desert island by the evil magician.
浮动	利率常以周期方式fu2dong4。	Interest rate generally fluctuates in a cyclical manner.
云雀	yun2que4抖动它的双翼。	The skylark quivered its wings.
晕船	我yun4chuan2, 恨不得立刻上岸.	I'm no sailor and I couldn't wait to reach dry land.
唱反调	我并非真正主张应该有死刑, 只是故意唱chang4 fan3diao4罢了.	I don't really believe in capital punishment, I'm just playing the devil's advocate.
绒毛	糙面厚呢一种粗糙不平的带有未修剪的rong2mao2的羊毛呢	A coarse, shaggy woolen cloth with an uncut nap.
穿插	总而言之，这是一个妙极了的激动人心的凯尔特故事，中间chuan1cha1着一些闪烁着智慧与机智的片断。	All in all then, it is a rattling good Celtic yearn with a few fragments of wit-and-wisdom thrown in.
施肥	农民们shi1fei2来使土地肥沃。	The peasants fertilize the field by using manure.
就任	候任总统将在下周正式jiu4ren4。	The President elect will be installed next week.
举例	松鼠，啮齿类动物的代表；ju3li4介绍每一个生词的用法	The squirrel, an example of a rodent; introduced each new word with examples of its use.
高达	建筑费用涨到gao1da2新台币两千万。	Building costs ran up to as much as NT$ 20 million.
杀菌剂	农药，农用化学品用来增加作物产量的化学品，如激素、sha1jun1ji4、杀虫剂	A chemical, such as a hormone, a fungicide, or an insecticide, that improves the production of crops.
放行	那司机等候绿灯fang4xing2，让发动机空转著。	The driver waited for the green light, his engine racing.
哨子	路警吹响了shao4zi5，火车就开动了。	The guard blew his whistle, and the train moved off.
公社	gong1she4社员们正忙着收割庄稼。	The commune members were busy getting in the crops.
鲜红	她指甲xian1hong2.	Her finger-nails were blood-red.
优待	与新来乍到者不同，对那些工作多年的雇员将予以you1dai4。	Employee who has worked here for many years will be given preference over newcomer.
活像	我膀子上挎着两件衣服，huo2xiang4一个卖旧货的。	I held two coats over my arm like a rag-and-bone merchant.
制剂	熟石膏粉供绘画或作浅层浮雕表面用的混有胶水的熟石膏zhi4ji4	A preparation of plaster of Paris and glue used as a base for low relief or as a surface for painting.
删去	老师shan1qu4这个学生文章中的多余内容。	The teacher pruned the student's article of its superfluities.
阵风	这zhen4feng1来自西北方。	The wind is in the northwestern direction.
教条	每一种jiao4tiao2都必定自有其得意之时。	Every dogma must have its day.
砸碎	昨天一位男子在火车上胡作非为—他打伤了两名铁路员工，za2sui4了几扇车厢窗户。	A man ran amok in the train yesterday—he struck two railway staff and smashed several carriage windows.
所见所闻	他的suo3jian4-suo3wen2使他内心大为震动。	His mind was reeling with all that he had seen and heard.
推土机	tui1tu3ji1一种可用来挖掘或推动泥土机器，如tui1tu3ji1或挖土机	A machine, such as a bulldozer or backhoe, that is used for digging or pushing earth.
当上	他dang1shang5了省长.	He established himself as governor of the province.
恢恢	他逃到巴西，企图逃避hui1hui1法网。	He fled to Brazil trying to escape the long arm of the law.
导火索	他划了根火柴, 点著了dao3huo3suo3.	He struck a match and ignited the fuse.
富于	人们常说女人比男人更fu4yu2感情。	Women are often said to be more emotional than men.
炮火	我们的pao4huo3控制了通往市区的各条道路。	Our guns covered every approach to the town.
买进	昨天钢材股市上的股票被大量mai3jin4更明确地预示了大选即将来临。	A more specific election straw in the wind can be found in yesterday's heavy buying of steel shares.
名望	前途光明的表示ming2wang4或成功的希望的	Showing promise of fame or success.
零用钱	我妹妹认为，她能极力说服父亲提高她每月的ling2yong4qian2。	My younger sister thinks she can argue Father into increasing her monthly pocket money.
降雨	夏季季风夏季从西南或南方吹来的并能给亚洲南部带来大量jiang4yu3的风	A wind from the southwest or south that brings heavy rainfall to southern Asia in the summer.
液态	大多数合成洗涤剂呈粉状或ye4tai4.	Most synthetic detergents are in the form of powder or liquid.
酿成	niang4cheng2谋杀案的各个环节是通过一系列倒叙手法来表现的.	The events that led up to the murder were shown in a series of flashbacks.
喷气机	抗荷衣宇航员或pen1qi4ji1飞行员穿的飞行服，在快速垂直加速中增加身体下部的压力以保持脑部血液供应	A flight garment worn by astronauts and jet pilots that presses on the lower body to maintain the blood supply to the brain during rapid vertical acceleration.
军事法庭	jun1shi4 fa3ting2由指挥官指定的官员组成的军事或海军法庭以对违反军事法的人进行审判	A military or naval court of officers appointed by a commander to try persons for offenses under military law.
甲虫	我把石头搬起来时，那只jia3chong2跑了。	The beetle scuttled away when I lifted the stone.
石棉	shi2mian2沉着病由长期吸收shi2mian2微粒而引起的慢性，日趋严重的肺病	A chronic, progressive lung disease caused by prolonged inhalation of asbestos particles.
跑掉	他杀死了敌人的看守，然后在老乡们的帮助下pao3diao4了。	He killed the enemy guard and made away with the help of the villagers.
穿孔	一组卡片，通常是一叠完整的chuan1kong3卡片，它具有确定的服务对象和明确的用途。	A collection of cards, commonly a complete set of cards which have been punched for a definite service or purpose.
松软	花园里的泥土song1ruan3肥沃。	The earth in the garden is good, soft soil.
莅临	一片欢呼声欢迎女王li4lin2.	Cheers greeted the arrival of the Queen.
公文	条文规定必须由律师拟定此gong1wen2。	Regulations prescribe that a lawyer draw up the paper.
浓雾	nong2wu4笼罩着山顶。	The thick mist clouded the mountain-top.
美利坚	Mei3li4jian1合众国保证合众国各州实行共和政体。	The United States shall guarantee to every state in this union a republican form of government.
不屈不挠	他学得慢，但是他表现出bu4qu1-bu4nao2的毅力。	He is slow to learn, but shows great perseverance.
礼帽	魔术师口中念念有词, 把兔子从li3mao4中掏了出来.	`Abracadabra,' said the conjuror as he pulled the rabbit from the hat.
固执己见	他gu4zhi2-ji3jian4，什么也不能让他改变。	He is wedded to his own opinion and nothing can change him.
稳妥	公共汽车可能早到, 因此我们得wen3tuo3点, 现在就动身.	The bus might be early, so we'd better play safe and leave now.
惊叫	他的儿子已长那麽高了, 他不禁jing1jiao4起来.	He could not help exclaiming at how much his son had grown.
压低	水闸用门关住的水道的一部分，如运河。其中通过升高或降低这部分的水位可以抬升或ya1di1运输中的船只	A section of a waterway, such as a canal, closed off with gates, in which vessels in transit are raised or lowered by raising or lowering the water level of that section.
免于	政府拨款给这家公司使其mian3yu2破产。	The government has rescued the firm from bankruptcy by giving them a grant.
杏子	梅子酱由干梅子或xing4zi5做成的甜酱或油酥点心馅	A sweet spread or pastry filling made of prunes or apricots.
两样	白兰地和水的混合物，要糟蹋liang3yang4好东西。	A mixture of brandy and water spoil two good thing.
统帅	大元帅某一国内所有武装部队的最高tong3shuai4	The commander in chief of all the armed forces in certain countries.
树干	暴风雨把树枝从shu4gan4上刮了下来.	The storm has split the branch off from the main tree trunk.
累垮	我们到旅程终点时全都lei4kua3了.	We were all suffering from fatigue at the end of our journey.
伺机	现在场景转到仓库，行凶者正埋伏在那里si4ji1行动。	And now the scene shifts to the warehouse, where the murderer is lying in wait.
美中不足	总的来说，这篇文章写得不坏，但是有些小错，因此显得mei3 zhong1 bu4 zu2。	The essay is well-done on the whole. It is, however, marred here and there by slight inaccuracies.
捣碎	肉糜压缩饼一种北美印第安人用干瘦肉条dao3sui4并拌上油脂和浆果然后压制成小饼的食品	A food prepared by Native Americans from lean, dried strips of meat pounded into paste, mixed with fat and berries, and pressed into small cakes.
软骨	ruan3gu3性的有ruan3gu3组织结构的；坚固、坚韧而又有弹性的	Having the texture of cartilage; firm and tough, yet flexible.
移居	必须办妥某些手续方可yi2ju1他国.	Certain formalities have to be gone through before one can emigrate.
解说员	jie3shuo1yuan2在伊丽莎白戏剧中朗诵序言和尾声以及有时关于演出评论的演员	An actor in Elizabethan drama who recites the prologue and epilogue to a play and sometimes comments on the action.
愈演愈烈	足球比赛中恣意闹事现在已经达到yu4yan3-yu4lie4的地步。	Football hooliganism is now reaching epidemic proportions.
眼巴巴	孩子们yan3ba1ba1地等候话剧开始。	With expectant faces, children are waiting for the drama to start.
俏皮话	妙语，qiao4pi5hua4经常是即兴说出的机智风趣的话语	A clever, witty remark often prompted by the occasion.
总要	每逢他晚归, 妻子zong3yao4追问他晚上到哪里去了.	Whenever he comes in late his wife cross-examines him about where he's spent the evening.
惊呆	这个贫穷的女孩被大厦里的豪华的陈设jing1dai1了。	The poor girl was astonished by the sumptuous furnishings of the mansion.
挤进	他ji3jin4两人中间，阻止他们打架。	He interposed himself between them to stop them fighting.
偏袒	他的pian1tan3态度招致了不少批评。	His partial attitude called forth a lot of criticism.
致词	会议首先由他zhi4ci2.	He opened the conference with a speech.
娇嫩	爸爸主张对我们进行严格的教育。他总是说，“良好的”教育会使我们过于jiao1nen4，不能与严酷的生活作斗争。	Father believed in bringing us up the hard way. He always said that a""good"" education would make us too soft for the harsh battles of life.
花丛	有一只蝴蝶正在hua1cong2里忽上忽下地飞着。	A butterfly is flying up and down among the flowers.
出资	学校的修缮将由教育部门chu1zi1。	The repairs to the school will be financed by the educational department.
不服	她bu4 fu2判决而向高等法院上诉。	She appealed to the high court against her sentence.
鼓吹	她一直在gu3chui1新鲜空气的好处。	She's always preaching the value of fresh air.
黏膜	酸能刺激胃nian2mo2.	Acid irritates the stomach lining.
名为	难怪他们的队打败了我们；他们请了一个冒ming2wei2丹·史密斯的职业队员替他们投球。	No wonder their team beat us; they rang in a professional to pitch for them under the name of Dan Smith.
编队	一中队战机脱离bian1dui4攻击敌轰炸机群。	One squadron peeled off to attack enemy bombers.
寓所	牧师住宅管辖区通常由教会提供给牧师的正式yu4suo3；教区长的管辖区	The official residence usually provided by a church for its parson; a rectory.
猎狗	狐狸躲在lie4gou3抓不到它的灌木丛中。	The fox hid in the thicket where the dog could not reach it.
排演	pai2yan3话剧的过程很复杂.	The mechanics of staging a play are very complicated.
帝国主义	她在报告中探讨了di4guo2zhu3yi4的本性。	In her talk she went into the nature of imperialism.
书信	在字（词）处理技术中，shu1xin4和其它文献的主要部分。	In word processing, the main text of a letter or other document.
半截	房子ban4jie2被埋在雪里。	The house was half buried under snow.
致谢	她的理论被人引用而未向她zhi4xie4.	Her theory was quoted without (an) acknowledgement.
怪诞	希罗宁姆斯·博希是guai4dan4派绘画大师。	Hieronymus Bosch was a master of the grotesque in painting.
罗盘	luo2pan2是航行仪器。	The compass is an instrument of navigation.
工时	建筑者估计这个活儿需要15个gong1shi2.	The builder reckons 15 man-hours for the job.
一晃	假期简直是yi1huang4而过。	The holidays simply sped by.
血泊	尸体俯卧在xue4po1中.	The corpse lay face down in a pool of blood.
出勤	他还告诉我说你的辅导课和讨论课chu1qin2率不高。	He also tells me that your attendance at his tutorial and seminar have been poor.
南美洲	几个Nan2 Mei3zhou1国家和纳粹德国断绝了外交关系。	Several South American states broke off diplomatic relations with Nazi Germany.
献殷勤	她的追求者几乎是争先恐后向她xian4 yin1qin2。	Her admirers almost fell over each other with offers of hospitality.
无意识	痉挛一种由于紧张或寒冷而导致的肌肉突发性、wu2yi4shi2的、间歇性的紧缩，能导致剧烈的疼痛，通常发生在腿部或肩部	A sudden, involuntary, spasmodic muscular contraction causing severe pain, often occurring in the leg or shoulder as the result of strain or chill.
趋向	选民的态度有改变的qu1xiang4.	There is a wind of change in the attitude of voters.
病理	酒精中毒由过量及习惯性饮酒而造成的一种慢性渐进的bing4li3状况，主要影响神经及消化系统	A chronic, progressive pathological condition, mainly affecting the nervous and digestive systems, caused by the excessive and habitual consumption of alcohol.
圣保罗	最后，如果一个人竟能像《圣经》中的Sheng4bao3luo2那样，肯为了兄弟们的得救甚至甘于忍受神的诅咒；那么他就必定超越了凡人，而且有真正基督徒的品格了。	But above all, if he has St. Paul's perfection, that he would wish to be anathema from Christ, for the salvation of his brethren, it shows much of a divine nature, and a kind of conformity with Christ himself.
求得	以牺牲健康来qiu2de2工作上的成功是不值得的。	Success in your job is not worth the sacrifice of your health.
光束	手电筒的guang1shu4扫遍屋内各个角落.	The flashlight's beam scanned every corner of the room.
力图	他们li4tu2根除罪恶。	They attempted to eradicate crime.
西方人	正是希腊人影响了xi1fang1ren2的思维。	It was the Greeks who shaped the thinking of Western man.
青草	久旱使qing1cao3枯萎。	The long drought scorched the grass.
亚伯拉罕	ya4 bo2 la1 han3·林肯，这位美国人民所爱戴的总统，与人民群众的联系始终很密切。	Abraham Lincoln, the president loved by American people was always close to the people.
数值	一种低速输入设备，它将图形和图象数据转换成用于数字计算机的二进制shu4zhi2输入。	A low-speed input device that converts graphic and pictorial data into binary, numeric inputs for a digital computer.
制订	他专心致志地zhi4ding4计划。	He was involved in working out a plan.
踌躇	她chou2chu2了一下，然後继续走。	She hesitated and walked on.
收支	公司的帐目shou1-zhi1不平衡。	The company accounts did not balance.
装配	汽车常由机器zhuang1pei4.	The assembly of cars is often done by machines.
勃勃	迪克因野心bo2bo2而自食其果。	Dick fell a prey to his ambition.
跑出	有一只老虎pao3chu1, 正在城里东逃西窜.	An escaped tiger is roaming free in the town.
触角	昆虫几乎都有chu4jiao3。	Almost all insects have feelers.
蜿蜒	这条河流wan1yan2穿过山谷。	The river twines through the valley.
摇动	这只猫急速yao2dong4着尾巴。	The cat lashed her tail.
膀子	我bang3zi5上挎着两件衣服，活像一个卖旧货的。	I held two coats over my arm like a rag-and-bone merchant.
二手货	富孀，是惟一可以一流的价钱出售的er4shou3huo4色。	Rich widows are the only secondhand goods that sell at first-class prices.
粘土	烟斗，烟筒抽烟用具，由木头、nian2tu3或其他物质组成的管子，一头带有小吹嘴	A device for smoking, consisting of a tube of wood, clay, or other material with a small bowl at one end.
利弊	我希望你们权衡一下一切li4-bi4。	I want you to consider all the pros and cons.
责骂	不要ze2ma4这孩子, 他过了那一阵就会好的.	Don't scold the boy; he'll come round in time.
帘子	我挑选壁纸和lian2zi5用了好几天的时间.	I spent days picking and choosing before deciding on the wallpaper and curtains.
辞呈	她向他递交了ci2cheng2。	She proffered him her resignation.
不由自主	战栗bu4 you2 zi4zhu3地颤动或抖动，如由于神经或虚弱等原因	An involuntary trembling or quivering, as from nervous agitation or weakness.
打字机	她把一张白纸插入da3zi4ji1里。	She inserted a new sheet of paper into the typewriter.
拐弯抹角	他guai3wan1-mo4jiao3地说她缺乏经验。	He made oblique references to her lack of experience.
水坝	那shui3ba4在水的压力下决口了.	The dam burst under the weight of water.
昏迷不醒	这名伤员由于失血过多而hun1mi2bu4xing3。	This wounded soldier was unconscious from his loss of blood.
不成	前景中的马画得bu4cheng2比例.	The figures of the horses in the foreground are out of proportion.
眼花缭乱	还有，尽管这光芒使人yan3hua1-liao2luan4，但它确实传送了一种我们未曾经历的和无法想象的美和静谧的启示。	And, though the gleams blind and dazzle, yet do they convey a hint of beauty and serenity greater that we have known or imagined.
时刻表	查一下火车shi2ke4biao3中下一趟车的时间.	Look up the time of the next train in the timetable.
加盖	谁在那楼房正面jia1gai4了那麽一截讨厌的建筑物?	Who perpetrated that dreadful extension to the front of the building?
点出	我已经注意到有些雇员上班迟到一个小时. 我不dian3chu1名字来, 但是要是你觉得我说的是你....	I have noticed some employees coming to work an hour late. I shall name no names, but if the cap fits....
见习	一个jian4xi2技术员被建筑物上落下的一块石头砸着了。	A technician on probation was hit by a piece of falling masonry.
零时	曲率极限当弧长趋向于ling2shi2该曲率的极限	The limit of this ratio as the length of the arc approaches zero.
罚金	她争执一番後, 无可奈何地缴纳了fa2jin1.	She paid the fine under protest.
膳	他找到住房之前, 在我家寄shan4.	He boarded at my house/with me until he found a flat.
不遗余力	为确保乘客安全而bu4 yi2 yu2li4.	Great pains have been taken to ensure the safety of passengers.
土星	Tu3xing1是依次离太阳的第六颗行星。	Saturn is the planet sixth in order from the sun.
使徒	我买了一本关于神权自shi3tu2传至教皇及其他主教的一脉相承的书。	I bought a book on the passing of spiritual authority from the apostles through successive popes and other bishops.
黄鼠狼	huang2shu3lang2主要以老鼠和兔子为食。	Weasel lives mainly on rats and rabbits.
牙缝	我ya2feng4里塞了点东西，就是弄不出来。	There is something between my teeth and I can't dislodge it.
面包屑	麻雀啄食著mian4bao1xie4.	Sparrows picked at the crumbs.
次于	小凯旋式古罗马欢迎将士凯旋归来的仪式，隆重程度稍ci4yu2凯旋式	An ancient Roman victory ceremony of somewhat less importance than a triumph.
蹦蹦跳跳	她beng4beng4tiao4tiao4地来到我们面前说她要走了.	She waltzed up to us and announced that she was leaving.
多样化	费尔菲尔德康涅狄格西南的一座城镇，跨长岛海峡，在布里奇波特西南。于1639年建立，主要是住宅区，有duo1yang4hua4的轻工业。人口53，418	A town of southwest Connecticut on Long Island Sound southwest of Bridgeport. Settled in1639, it is mainly residential and has varied light industries. Population, 53,418.
盲从	一羊跟一羊（指mang2cong2）。	One sheep follows another.
肝火	他断断续续地同评论家们口诛笔伐，使得gan1huo3旺盛。	He kept the adrenalin flowing with off-and-on feuds with his critics.
原野	我们在开阔的yuan2ye3上露营.	We bivouacked on the open plain.
蹄子	最后她终于想到了写字，用一只ti2zi5把她的名字－－很短的一个名字－－划在沙地上。	At length she bethought herself of writing, and inscribed her name-it was a short one-with her hoof on the sand.
大雅	他在得知这消息时所发的议论不宜见诸报端（语言粗俗难登da4ya3之堂）.	His comment when he heard the news was not printable! ie was too rude to be printed.
打杂	她雇佣我为她的私人助理，但我似乎要做的一切是替她da3za2。	She took me on as her personal assistant but all I seem to do is fetch and carry for her.
独创	她在运用隐喻方面有du2chuang4性。	She has a striking originality in her use of metaphor.
子时	他在找新房zi3shi2把家具存放在仓库里。	His furniture is in storage while he finds a new house.
铸成	飞机的航线互相交错zhu4cheng2人命惨祸.	The flight paths of the aeroplanes crossed, with fatal results.
堂堂	他由於仪表tang2tang2而当选，但他尚须证明决非徒有其表。	His good looks won him the election but he has still to prove that he's not just a pretty face.
退还	等我们检查完你的文件就tui4huan2给你.	You can have your files back after we've checked them.
讲师	jiang3shi1正在讲俄罗斯文学。	The lecturer is lecturing on Russian literature.
总分	我zong3fen1不清他和他的孪生兄弟。	I always confounded him with his twin brother.
巴勒斯坦	他们正计划九月份访问Ba1le4si1tan3。	They are planning to visit Palestine in September.
鳟鱼	水产养殖在控制条件下，科学、艺术及商业性培植海水或淡水食用鱼或介壳类，如牡蛎、蛤、鲑及zun1yu2	The science, art, and business of cultivating marine or freshwater food fish or shellfish, such as oysters, clams, salmon, and trout, under controlled conditions.
一系列	yi1xi4lie4的幸运事使她的事业一帆风顺。	A series of fortuitous circumstances advanced her career.
技术员	我是ji4shu4yuan2。	I am a technician.
呼吸器	潜水员水下工作者，尤指配有hu1xi1qi4和加重衣服的水下工作者	One that works under water, especially one equipped with breathing apparatus and weighted clothing.
自由自在	在自然界, 一切动物都是野生的, zi4you2-zi4zai4的.	In nature, all animals are wild and free.
蛙	他坐在操场上，聆听远处的wa1鸣。	He sat on the playground listening to the distant croak.
文艺复兴	这些是Wen2yi4 Fu4xing1时期的文化遗产。	These are the cultural legacies of the Renaissance.
征召	新zheng1zhao4的军人刚配备好个人装具。	The new intake of soldiers has just been kitted out.
本国	任何人如帮助敌人危害ben3guo2，他的生命财产便被国家没收。	If man put his country in danger by helping the enemy, his life and possessions were forfeit to the crown.
炭	tan4笔画用这种tan4笔画成的速描或画	A sketch or drawing made with this charcoal.
赔偿金	他们要他付损害pei2chang2jin1, 但他藉口贫穷而不偿还.	They asked him to pay for the damage but he pleaded poverty.
测定	平面规，测平仪在精密金属加工中用于ce4ding4平面表面精度的金属平板	A flat metal plate for gauging the accuracy of a plane surface in precision metalworking.
绵延	这条路向远处mian2yan2伸展.	The road extends for miles and miles.
相距	两村xiang1ju4一英里, 我家在中间.	The two villages are a mile apart, and my house lies midway between them.
倒卖	非法dao3mai4老式步枪和手枪的人很明显地还有市场。	People trafficking in obsolete rifles and pistols clearly still find a market for them.
平滑	粒面的在明暗区间有显著分界的；不ping2hua2的。用于相片和电影胶片	Having sharp divisions between light and dark patches; not smooth. Used of photographs and film.
弄坏	她总胡乱摆弄手表，结果把它nong4huai4了。	She fiddled with her watch so much that it broke.
圆盘	yuan2pan2的边缘已用机器磨平[光].	The edge of the disc had been machined flat/smooth.
浩劫	将近一万名西方平民（多半是英国人和美国人）躲藏在被占领的科威特城。如果萨达姆能如愿，使他们落在他手里，他们将被指定为活靶，难逃hao4jie2。	Nearly10, 000 Western civilians, mostly British and American, are holed up in captured Kuwait City. If Saddam gets his hands on them, as he intends to, they are to be designated human targets and doomed.
稳步	工作在wen3bu4地取得进展.	The work is progressing steadily.
体无完肤	关于宇宙起源的新理论被世界上很多著名的天文学家批得ti3 wu2 wan2 fu1。	The new theory of the origin of the universe was pulled to pieces by many of the world leading astronomers.
小径	他们在碎石xiao3jing4上散步。	They went out for a walk on the gravelled path.
海明威	hai3 ming2 wei1常用第一人称写作。	Hemingway often writes in the first person.
贫民	他在他们的眼光里是坍台了；他在pin2min2前面丢了体面和地位。	He was degraded in their eyes; he had lost caste and station before the very paupers.
不厌其烦	他一向是bu4yan4-qi2fan2地尝试各种播种农作物的方法。	He was never weary of experimenting with different ways of planting his crops.
执教	他所zhi2jiao4是一所规模很小的大学, 他想摆脱存在於其中的地方主义桎梏.	He wanted to escape from the provincialism of the small university where he taught.
鼓声	gu3sheng1平稳而缓慢。	The beats of the drum were steady and slow.
比价	对如此大数量的订购，本公司希望以bi3jia4目表内所订价格为低的批发折扣来采购。	For an order of this large quantity we expect a wholesale discount off your price-list.
固守	士兵们仍然gu4shou3城堡，但他们已陷于险境。	The soldiers are still holding the fort, but they're hanging on by their eyelids.
得益	在写这本书时，作者查阅了许多与此同类题材的著作，从中de2yi4非浅。	In writing this book, the author has greatly profited from consulting many works on the same subjects.
速成	他们用一周时间教su4cheng2英语课程, 那几天可真紧张!	They teach you English in an intensive course lasting just a week; it's quite an intensive few days!
无毒	经理化检验证实：使用该器无放射性污染，对人体绝对wu2du2无副作用。	Physical and chemical tests verify that this Recovery Device has neither radioactive pollution nor toxic side effects.
月夜	舞台灯光产生yue4ye4景色的效果.	The stage lighting gives the effect of a moonlit scene.
发散	晚霞；余晖日落后，天空中的大气所fa1san4出的短暂光辉	The atmospheric glow that remains for a short time after sunset.
凯歌	战士们唱起了歌颂他们英勇战斗的kai3ge1。	The soldiers sang a song of victory, describing their prowess in battle.
表层	精制石灰胶泥精制石灰胶泥，用于在灰泥biao3ceng2涂抹成膜	A fine lime cement used as a finishing coat on plaster.
淡薄	他对环境的新奇感不久就dan4bo2了。	The novelty of his surroundings soon wore off.
高粱	玉米、小米和gao1liang5较易适应不同的自然条件。	Maise, millet and kaoliang adapt readily to varying natural conditions.
传遍	消息很快chuan2bian4校园。	The news soon went round the campus.
期望值	矩，动差任意变量的正整数功效的qi1wang4zhi2。第一个矩是分配的平均数	The expected value of a positive integral power of a random variable. The first moment is the mean of the distribution.
吝啬鬼	斯克鲁奇是多麽可恶的lin4se4gui3呀!	What a miserable old devil Scrooge was!
拖走	抗议者被警察tuo1zou3了。	The protesters were dragged away by the police.
聪明才智	你应该发挥你的cong1ming5 cai2zhi4。	You should use your intelligence.
愤恨	她待他那种屈尊纡贵的样子, 他十分fen4hen4.	He resented the way she patronized him.
亲昵	｀亲爱的＇是qin1ni4语.	`Darling' is a term of endearment.
袅袅	山谷中薄雾niao3niao3.	Eddies of mist rose from the valley.
大都市	她离开小岛而在法国的da4du1shi4中成名。	She left the small island and became famous in metropolitan France.
安插	听众中an1cha1了演讲人的支持者；他们使劲给他鼓掌。	The speaker's supporters were planted in the audience and applauded loudly.
要说	你最好听听我yao4shuo1些什么。	You had better hear what I'll say.
下决心	他xia4 jue2xin1不让任何事情阻挡他。	He resolved that nothing should hold him back.
挽	群众臂wan3著臂组成人墙.	The crowd linked arms to form a barrier.
路德	马丁·Lu4de2·金在以非暴力手段寻求平等的过程中树立了许多敌人。	Martin Luther King made many adversaries in his nonviolent quest for equality.
船舱	他一听到汽笛声就立即走出chuan2cang1。	He made out of the cabin at once on hearing the siren.
战壕	有命令要我们必须在一小时内挖好zhan4hao2。	Orders came that we should spade the trench in an hour.
埃德	奥布赖恩，Ai1de2纳生于1932爱尔兰作家。作品包括孤独的姑娘和约翰我几乎认不出你了（1977年），探索今日爱尔兰的女性生活	Irish writer whose works, including The Lonely Girl(1962) and Johnny I Hardly Knew You(1977), explore the lives of women in modern-day Ireland.
核子	没有人能想像出全面he2zi3战争的後果.	Nobody can envisage the consequences of total nuclear war.
教友	这个星期天浸信会jiao4you3将要举行一场典礼。	The Baptist will hold a ceremony this Sunday.
传染性	肝炎肝部发炎，由chuan2ran3xing4或有毒性因素引起。症状为黄疸、发烧、肝部肿大和腹疼	Inflammation of the liver, caused by infectious or toxic agents and characterized by jaundice, fever, liver enlargement, and abdominal pain.
沙丘	沙漠里有许多sha1qiu1。	There are lots of dunes in the desert.
满座	她一演唱剧院就man3zuo4.	Opera houses were packed out whenever she was singing.
妖魔	食人yao1mo2传说或神说中食人的巨人或妖怪	A giant or monster in legends and fairy tales that eats human beings.
父辈	我这一代人和我fu4bei4及祖辈表现不同.	My generation behaves differently from my father's and grandfather's.
不动	不休息我们就走bu4 dong4了。	We can't go any farther without a rest.
眨眼睛	他有zha3 yan3jing5的习惯, 但渐渐地他不再患此毛病。	He had a habit of blinking his eyes, but gradually he grew out of it.
卸货	xie4huo4需要多久？	How long will the discharge of the cargo take?
摄氏	水银温度计停留在She4shi435度左右。	The mercury hovered around 35 Celsius degree.
大海捞针	在这座大城市里寻找一个人犹如da4hai3 lao1 zhen1.	Searching for one man in this big city is like looking for a needle in a haystack.
斥责	她公开chi4ze2那位大臣言论失当.	She rapped the Minister publicly for his indiscreet remarks.
急性子	珍最大的毛病是她的ji2xing4zi5。	Jane's worst fault is her quick temper.
翻越	为fan1yue4山脉的不断努力	A long pull across the mountains.
快照	发送或接收一幅新的kuai4zhao4会覆盖前面的图象。	Send or receiving a new snapshot overwrite the previous image.
恶狠狠	他们正在e4hen3hen3地争吵，我想他们可能要打架了。	They were having a fierce argument and I thought they might hit each other.
来客	他以主人身份接待lai2ke4。	He acted as host to visitors.
投奔	最好的队员都tou2ben4大俱乐部去了，留给他们这些不怎么样的球员。	The best players have gone off to the big clubs, leaving them the dross.
纬度	（wei3du4）低的wei3du4接近赤道的，或与之有关的	Relating to or being latitudes nearest to the equator.
恣意	zi4yi4挥霍的毫不在意地浪费的；极其奢侈的	Recklessly wasteful; wildly extravagant.
污浊	他打开窗户，放出wu1zhuo2的空气。	He opened the window to let out the foul air.
渡口	我们在du4kou3等了两小时.	We waited at the ferry for two hours.
停滞不前	销售现已开始ting2zhi4-bu4qian2。	Sales have now reached a plateau.
一瞥	yi1 pie1；一眼很快的一看或yi1 pie1；粗略看	A quick look or glimpse; a glance.
标明	仪表biao1ming2为5500单位.	The meter reads 5500 units.
分期	fen1qi1付的款可於每月最後一日交付.	Instalments are payable on the last day of the month.
混为一谈	幸福和财富不能hun4wei2yi1tan2。	One can not identify happiness with wealth.
寥寥无几	起先，大厅里挤得满满的，但是他一开始讲话，人们便陆陆续续离去，不一会儿，剩下听他发言的人便liao2liao2-wu2ji3了。	At first the hall was full, but people began to trickle out soon after the beginning of his speech, and soon there were very few left to hear the speaker.
元件	中性的电路yuan2jian4	A passive circuit element.
硅	gui1铁一种用于生产碳素钢的铁和gui1的合金	An alloy of iron and silicon used in the production of carbon steel.
事端	一名匪徒在街上制造shi4duan1引人注目，其余匪徒则抢劫银行。	One of the gang create a diversion in the street while the others rob the bank.
攻破	堡垒最容易从内部gong1po4。	The easiest way to capture a fortress is from within.
菜地	把整块cai4di4按两锹深翻挖一遍.	Dig the whole vegetable plot two spits deep.
款项	政府为修建医院拨出了大笔kuan3xiang4。	The government has appropriated a large sum of money for building hospitals.
听筒	打完电话后，请把ting1tong3放回原位。	Please put the receiver back after calling.
宴请	我们本星期yan4qing3大使.	We're dining the ambassador this week.
修路	xiu1lu4费已削减到不能再减的最低限度了.	Expenditure on road repairs has been cut to an irreducible minimum.
开篇	kai1pian1第一章是对主题的概述.	The opening chapter gives a general overview of the subject.
帐户	我想要开个定期存款zhang4hu4。	I think I'd like a deposit account.
除以	六chu2yi3二得三。	Six divided by two is three.
面颊	她mian4jia2上有一颗小痣。	She has a tiny mole on her cheek.
叙事	悲剧式作品刻画或描写灾难性事件的剧作、电影、电视节目或其它xu4shi4作品，有不幸的但意味深长的结局	A play, film, television program, or other narrative work that portrays or depicts calamitous events and has an unhappy but meaningful ending.
帮倒忙	他确实是想帮忙，然而事实上却只是bang1 dao4mang2。	No doubt he means to help, but in fact he just get in the way.
辫	她的母亲帮她编bian4子。	Her mother helped her to plait her hair.
歼灭	来犯的敌人已经jian1mie4。	The invading army was annihilated.
不宜	该报认为bu4yi2发表我的信.	The newspaper did not see fit to publish my letter.
幼虫	我觉得这虫子是蝴蝶的you4chong2。	I think this worm is a larva of a butterfly.
轧	这小巷有车胎ya4出的凹痕.	The lane was rutted with tyre tracks.
岭	山的支脉一列山或丘的横ling3	A spur of a mountain range or hills.
停工	天然气的严重缺乏使许多家工厂都ting2gong1了。	A severe natural gas shortage shut down many plants.
总编	zong3bian1将他的采访记者所写的文章加以修改。	The editor-in-chief blue-penciled the article written by his reporter.
腐化	fu3hua4fu3hua4的行为或过程	The act or process of corrupting.
通电	tong1dian4时线圈就会有磁性。	The loop becomes magnetic when the current is switched on.
无误	我的秤准确wu2wu4，太太。可是你称过你的小儿子了吗？	My scales are all right, madam. Have you weighted your little boy?
歌唱家	这位ge1chang4jia1由她妹妹担任钢琴伴奏。	The singer was accompanied by her sister at the piano.
纵情	肆意地作出粗暴的行为；zong4qing2享受最新时尚	Indulged in outrageous behavior; indulged in all the latest fads.
花椰菜	蔬菜因其可食部分而种植的植物，如甜菜根、菠菜叶或者椰菜、hua1ye1cai4的花蕾等	A plant cultivated for an edible part, such as the root of the beet, the leaf of spinach, or the flower buds of broccoli or cauliflower.
投递	邮包一定tou2di4错了，因为她一直没有收到。	The parcel must have miscarry, for she never receive it.
钙质	锅炉内壁要洗刷一下，除去gai4zhi4沉淀物。	The boilers will have to be scoured out to remove the calcium deposits.
大有	这项工程对每个人都da4you3好处。	This project is of great benefit to everyone.
拨动	竖琴一种有一个通常系有四十六根长短不一的琴弦的直立的开放三角架、弹奏时用手指bo1dong4琴弦的乐器	An instrument consisting of an upright, open triangular frame with usually46 strings of graded lengths played by plucking with the fingers.
礁石	绕过前方的jiao1shi2。	Steer clear of the rocks ahead.
稍纵即逝	在音乐家的脑海里，一组shao1zong4-ji2shi4的音符逐渐形成一个曲调。	In the musician's mind a fugitive set of notes began slowly to form into a tune.
变压器	自耦bian4ya1qi4一种电力bian4ya1qi4，其初级线圈与次级线圈部分或全部共用	An electrical transformer in which the primary and secondary coils have some or all windings in common.
饮用水	yin3yong4shui3均须过滤净化.	All drinking water must be filtered.
红木	这套hong2mu4家具一定非常昂贵。	This set of mahogany furniture must be very expensive.
医疗费	付给医院yi1liao2fei4是有违她的社会主义原则的.	Paying for hospital treatment goes against her socialist principles.
充其量	她chong1qi2liang4是个二流歌手。	She is at best a second-rate singer.
野草	遍地ye3cao3丛生.	The weeds grew in wanton profusion.
医术	yi1shu4，医业，医学有关医学的技术和专业	The art or profession of medicine.
维拉	Wei2la1罗伯斯，海特1887－1959巴西作曲家，他的作品受到巴西传统民间乐影响，包括交响曲、歌剧及歌曲	Brazilian composer whose works, including symphonies, operas, and songs, were influenced by Brazilian folk traditions.
温度计	wen1du4ji4上显示出40C.	The thermometer recorded 40C.
破洞	雨水从屋顶的po4dong4处哗哗往下流。	The rainwater is splashing down from the hole of the roof.
领班	他的邻居是一个乘务员ling3ban1。	His neighbor is a chief steward.
木工	一般认为像mu4gong1和烹饪之类的实用课程不如数学重要.	Practical lessons, like woodwork and cookery, are not considered as important as maths.
自卫队	人们聚集起来，组成国民zi4wei4dui4来保卫他们的城镇。	People gathered to form a militia to protect their town.
自食其果	迪克因野心勃勃而zi4shi2-qi2guo3。	Dick fell a prey to his ambition.
以北	苏丹非洲北部一地区，位于赤道yi3bei3，撒哈拉大沙漠以南，从大西洋沿岸横贯大陆至埃塞俄比亚山脉	A region of northern Africa south of the Sahara and north of the equator. It extends across the continent from the Atlantic coast to the mountains of Ethiopia.
侍卫	国王命令shi4wei4长马上把犯人带来。	The king ordered the Grand Chamberlain to bring the prisoner immediately.
繁多	杂货商有种类fan2duo1的存货。	The grocer's has plenty varieties of goods in stock.
矗立	塔chu4li4在废墟中。	The tower stood amidst the ruins.
情操	这样的行为与她qing2cao1高尚的原则是矛盾的。	Such behavior is inconsistent with her high-minded principles.
笨重	那时他正穿着ben4zhong4的靴子走来走去。	He was clumping about in heavy boots that time.
欢欣	指挥官朝气蓬勃和huan1xin1愉悦的神态使士兵们勇气倍增。	The leader's vital and cheerful manner filled his men with courage.
自诩	我并不zi4xu3对这一问题内行[是这一问题的专家].	I don't profess expert knowledge of/to be an expert in this subject.
早产	医生们在努力保证zao3chan3婴儿成活方面热情很高。	The doctors were zealous in their efforts to ensure the survival of premature babies.
雪崩	他遇xue3beng1被埋住了，得把他挖出来。	He was buried by an avalanche and had to be dug out.
玩世不恭	他wan2shi4-bu4gong1, 很难正经地和他交谈.	His flippancy makes it difficult to have a decent conversation with him.
担负	她得到提升，dan1fu4了更大的责任。	She took on greater responsibilities when she was promoted.
远眺	你可以极目yuan3tiao4，看到海岸。	You can see as far as the coast.
大马	我们很快就来到一条很宽、很吵杂，各种车辆来往行驶的Da4ma3路上。	Soon we came to a crowded street, a very wide street crowded with allsorts of vehicles.
风湿	她长期受feng1shi1病的折磨.	She's a martyr to rheumatism.
麦子	这台机器把mai4zi5磨成面粉。	This machine crushes wheat grain to make flour.
自由主义	一个竭力鼓吹zi4you2zhu3yi4的政治家	A politician who beats the drum for liberalism.
动辄	他dong4zhe2发脾气，你要小心地对付他。	He gets angry ever easily; you must handle him with kid gloves.
闸门	他们打开水库的zha2men2。	They open the sluice gates of reservoir.
慢吞吞	拥挤的车辆man4tun1tun1地穿过狭窄的隧道。	The heavy traffic crawled through the narrow tunnel.
百科全书	一部好的bai3ke1 quan2shu1是知识宝库。	A good encyclopaedia is a mine of information.
寥寥	这liao2liao2数语充分显示了她的高贵品质。	These few words fully revealed her noble quality.
二者	科技英语的一个重要的，也许是令人惊奇的特点是：无论是书面的传达，还是口头的交流，er4zhe3都是可以作为正式文体而通用的。	An important and perhaps surprising feature of technical English is that its normal style is common to both written and spoken communication.
包装纸	自私的野餐者乱扔bao1zhuang1zhi3使海滩杂乱不堪	Selfish picnickers litter the beach with food wrappers.
新闻记者	一些xin1wen2 ji4zhe3日夜在他门口纠缠不走。	News reporters camped upon his doorstep day and night.
多才多艺	她duo1cai2-duo1yi4, 能歌善舞.	Dancing and singing were among her many accomplishments.
缝纫	feng2ren4时，她在手上戴一枚顶针。	She put a thimble over the finger when sewing.
领事	他正向ling3shi4申请签证。	He is applying to the Consul for a visa.
永无止境	如果说我们缺点不断出现，那么上帝的恩爱却定会yong3wu2zhi3jing4。	And if our flaws are endless, God's love is truly boundless.
昏厥	飞机上升到这样高度时，飞行员hun1jue2了片刻时间。	The pilot blacked out for a moment upon reaching such a high altitude.
染料	我们担保这些ran3liao4不褪色.	We guarantee the fastness of these dyes.
憋气	我觉得这儿很bie1qi4, 咱们开几扇窗户好吗?	I'm suffocating in here; can't we open a few windows?
过活	我靠父母扶养勉强guo4huo2.	I can just scrape along on what my parents give me.
诱导	动机一种能作为you4dao3物而激发行为的情绪、愿望、心理需要或者类似的心理推动力	An emotion, desire, physiological need, or similar impulse that acts as an incitement to action.
农作物	好天气使nong2zuo4wu4长得很好。	The fine weather is bringing the crops on nicely.
遥遥	在医院病床躺了一个星期之后，他只能yao2yao2晃晃地走几步。	After a week in the hospital bed, I was only able too wobble around a bit.
江河	这会引起污染，破坏我们的海洋和jiang1he2。	It will cause pollution and the destruction of our seas and oceans.
空头	kong1tou2支票代表虚构的金融交易的可转让票据，暂时用于维持信贷或筹集钱款	A piece of negotiable paper representing a fictitious financial transaction and used temporarily to sustain credit or raise money.
唯恐	他们低声说话，wei2kong3被别人听见。	They spoke in whispers lest they should be heard.
复述	他一字不差地fu4shu4了您说的话。	He repeated what you said word for word.
旗号	她打著平等的qi2hao4参加了竞选.	She fought the election under the banner of equal rights.
拜倒	凡希望受到皇帝恩宠的人都要bai4dao3在他面前.	Those who wished a favour of the emperor had to grovel on hands and knees before him.
论据	应该承认他的lun4ju4中有逻辑性.	You have to accept the logic of his argument.
共用	gong4yong4餐者如在军队集体食堂里经常与某人一起用膳的人	A person with whom one eats regularly, as in a military mess.
徐徐	当船xu2xu2开动时，孩子们欢呼雀跃。	The children cheered as the ship drew slowly away.
图钉	我在墙上钉了一个tu2ding1，然后在上面挂了一张小图片。	I hammered a tack into the wall and hung a small picture from it.
烟灰	不要把yan1hui1掉在地毯上。	Don't drop cigarette ash on the carpet.
工作台	gong1zuo4tai2在上面做手工工作的坚固的桌子或长凳，如机械工人、木匠或珠宝匠的gong1zuo4tai2	A sturdy table or bench at which manual work is done, as by a machinist, carpenter, or jeweler.
视作	攻击了那条船已shi4zuo4战争行为.	The attack on the ship was viewed as an act of war.
在握	他们因对手权柄zai4wo4, 反抗也没用.	Their opponents had the whip hand and it was useless to resist.
失约	他和我有过两次约会，但两次他都shi1yue1了。	He had two appointments with me, but let me down on both occasions.
积压	ji1ya1堆积物，尤指没完成的工作或未兑现的定单	An accumulation, especially of unfinished work or unfilled orders.
通融	她仅超过年龄限制一天，因此组织者tong1rong2了一下，接受她入会。	She was only one day over the age limit so the organizers bent the rules and accepted her entry.
衣衫	他是个yi1shan1褴褛的流浪者。	He is a tramp in shabby old clothes.
水银	shui3yin2的与shui3yin2有关的或含shui3yin2的，尤指含二价汞的	Relating to or containing mercury, especially with valence2.
滑轮	我们的旗帜被用一根绳子和两个hua2lun2升到了竿顶。	Our flag is raised to the top of a pole by a rope and two pulley.
真实感	这部小说的情节多靠巧合安排而无zhen1shi2gan3。	The plot of the novel relies too much on coincidence to be realistic.
亮度	热情，激情在动态、liang4du4、强度或形态方面类似火焰的东西	Something resembling a flame in motion, brilliance, intensity, or shape.
棚子	我设法弄来点材料搭个peng2zi5.	I managed to scrounge the materials to build a shed.
获益	你是否从经营业务的新方法中huo4yi4?	Did you benefit from the new way of doing business?
轻重	许多伟人曾经是贫苦、不足qing1-zhong4的小孩。好汉不怕出生贱。	Many great men were once poor, unimportant boys. Great oaks form little acorn grow.
膏药	雷蒙：他说没什麽，他只是把我的脚踝浸在一些中药里，然后贴上一块gao1yao5。	Raymond: He didn't say anything. He just soaked my ankle in some herbal medicine and then put a patch on it.
急匆匆	他ji2cong1cong1地走出办公室，好象很生气的样子。	He hurriedly left the office as if angry.
菱形	ling2xing2花纹的织物一种图案为小ling2xing2叠复花型装饰的白棉布或亚麻布	A white cotton or linen fabric patterned with small, duplicative diamond-shaped figures.
粗大	这间屋子cu1da4的椽子可以看得见。	The big rafter is visible in this room.
风帆	我们的船长下令调整feng1fan1，顺风行驶。	Our captain ordered us to square away and sail before the wind.
斩首	英王查理一世遭zhan3shou3.	King Charles I had his head cut off.
百年	罗马帝国存在了几bai3nian2。	The Roman Empire existed for several centuries.
说三道四	那一群shuo1san1-dao4si4的常客们聚集在小酒店里，议论那对医生夫妇。	The regulars are holding a mother's meeting down at the pub to discuss the news about the doctor and his wife.
可知	假如我再容忍你下去的话，我可能会一步步退化至成为老婆也未ke3zhi1。	If I continue to endure you a little longer, I may by degrees dwindle into a wife.
翅	雄鹰展开双chi4。	The eagle unfolded its wings.
左翼	战士们攻击敌人的zuo3yi4。	The soldiers attacked the left flank of the enemy.
皆大欢喜	比赛结果使双方jie1 da4 huan1xi3。	Everyone of the two sides is happy at the result of the match.
授	奖品shou4给了优胜者。	The trophy was bestowed upon the winner.
战时	zhan4shi2很少交换俘虏.	The exchange of prisoners during a war is unusual.
整套	zheng3tao4房间都弥漫著做菜的气味.	The smell of cooking permeates (through) the flat.
扩音器	要是你打算买一个新的kuo4yin1qi4，何不干脆将全套设备换成新的？	If you are getting a new amplifier, why don't you go to the big figure and replace everything?
一概	他对我们提出的反对意见yi1gai4置之不理。	He waved aside all out objections.
学年	班级舞会常在xue2nian2结束或将近结束时高年级或大学生开的正式舞会	A formal dance held for a high-school or college class typically at or near the end of the academic year.
普查	驱邪仪式古罗马每五年pu3cha2人口后对全体国民进行的净化仪式	A ceremonial purification of the entire ancient Roman population after the census every five years.
出任	史密斯先生将chu1ren4阿根廷大使的命令已经下达。	The decree has gone forth that Mr.Smith is to be the new ambassador to Argentina.
雄鹰	xiong2ying1展开双翅。	The eagle unfolded its wings.
大写	姓名请用da4xie3.	Write your name in block capitals, please.
仲裁	zhong4cai2人当调解人无法解决时被指定解决争议的人；zhong4cai2人	A person appointed to settle a dispute that mediators have been unable to resolve; an arbitrator.
简朴	把一座jian3pu3的错层式的房子叫做大厦真太可笑了	It is ludicrous to call a simple split-level house a mansion.
触觉	盲人在很大程度上依靠chu4jue2.	Blind people rely a lot on touch.
如若	ru2ruo4给以发展的机会，她是很可能会成为一个杰出的艺术家的。	Given the opportunity she might well have become an outstanding artist.
初试	chu1shi4为更长、更复杂或更重要的考试而进行的预备性学术测试或考试	An academic test or examination that is preparatory to one that is longer, more complex, or more important.
花言巧语	他人极聪明，毫无诚意的hua1yan2-qiao3yu3骗不了他。	He was too wise to be imposed upon by fair words spoken without sincerity.
本行	医生说：“和护士们一起喝茶休息是十分值得的。我们总是谈ben3hang2。实际上我们只有这个时候才能一起聊聊我们病人的情况。”	The doctor says,""a tea break with the nurses in immensely valuable. We always talk shop. It's the only real chance we get to chat about our patients.""
语重心长	他那yu3zhong4xin1chang2的话语终于使对方说出了实情。	His words of sincerity and affection have at last drawn the badger.
小病	她一定要孩子们穿得暖暖的，他们有点小毛xiao3bing4便提心吊胆，她对他们实在关心得太过分了。	She does fuss the children about so-making sure they're well wrapped up, and worrying about minor illnesses.
驱走	教士将鬼从房屋中qu1zou3.	A priest exorcized the ghost from the house.
杀掉	愤怒的群众嚷道，“sha1diao4这个卖国贼，他该死。	The angry crowd shouted,""Knock the traitor on the head. He is not fit to live.""
难懂	nan2dong3的不容易理解的；深奥的	Not easily understood; abstruse.
铺路	沥青混泥土碎石或沙子与沥青的混合物，用于pu1lu4或封层顶	Mixed asphalt and crushed stone gravel or sand, used for paving or roofing.
露骨	两极相通。最激烈的无政府主义者，居然成了最lu4gu3的变节者。	Extremes meet. the most furious anarchist become the most barefaced apostate.
泻药	许多医生推荐含有丰富食物纤维的天然食物，因为它有助于防止便秘，以取代万不得已而使用的xie4yao4。原因显而易见－治病总是不如防病。	Many doctors prefer a natural food, rich in dietary fibre, which will help you to avoid constipation, rather than having to resort to purgatives. The reason is obvious-prevention is always better than cure.
裁剪	我这件大衣请你照这个式样cai2jian3。	Please cut out my overcoat according to this pattern.
溃烂	他的伤口在kui4lan4。	His wound became festering.
貂皮	她戴着带有diao1pi2的披肩	She wore her sable stole.
贫贱	最pin2jian4的劳动者享有和最富的地主同样的权利.	The meanest labourer has the same rights as the richest landowner.
沉痛	士兵死亡後, 女眷表示chen2tong4哀悼.	The dead soldiers were mourned by their womenfolk.
尽善尽美	他们正在努力研制jin4shan4-jin4mei3的新颜料配方.	They are working on the perfection of their new paint formula.
审议	今天的会议将shen3yi4我的计划。	My plan will be on the carpet at today's meeting.
沥青	工人们把li4qing1和沙子、石块混合在一起。	The workers mixed the asphalt with sand and gravel together.
揭幕	开幕，jie1mu4正式开始或引进	A formal beginning or introduction.
副业	他在干一个有收益的fu4ye4－－－－向游客出售明信片。	He runs a profitable sideline selling postcard to tourist.
漏斗	lou4dou3状物外形象lou4dou3的物体	Something resembling this utensil in shape.
汽笛	他一听到qi4di2声就立即走出船舱。	He made out of the cabin at once on hearing the siren.
养病	她经过住院治疗後, 前往海滨yang3bing4.	She went to the seaside to convalesce after her stay in hospital.
撒哈拉	我们听他们讲述Sa1ha1la1沙漠的生活经历。	We listened to their tales about life in the Sahara Desert.
起家	从简陋的设备qi3jia1，他们已生产出不少高质量的机器。	Starting with very simple equipment, they have produced a number of high-quality machines.
影射	他讨厌人家ying3she4他秃顶.	He resents any allusion to his baldness.
搬弄	巫婆ban1nong4巫术的女人；巫婆	A woman who practices sorcery; a witch.
科威特	将近一万名西方平民（多半是英国人和美国人）躲藏在被占领的Ke1wei1te4城。如果萨达姆能如愿，使他们落在他手里，他们将被指定为活靶，难逃浩劫。	Nearly10, 000 Western civilians, mostly British and American, are holed up in captured Kuwait City. If Saddam gets his hands on them, as he intends to, they are to be designated human targets and doomed.
拆卸	人类，是一堆可以随意chai1xie4的铅管零件的巧妙装配。	A human being is an ingenious assembly of portable plumbing.
思想家	那位著名的进步si1xiang3jia1被邀请在会议上发表演讲。	That famous progressive thinker was asked to deliver a speech at the meeting.
蒸气	zheng1qi4接触冷的表面而凝结成水珠.	Steam condenses/is condensed into water when it touches a cold surface.
聚拢	一群人ju4long3起来看发生了什么事。	A crowd gathered to see what had happened.
投保	该保险单对大多数损坏tou2bao3但不保机器的自然损耗。	The insurance policy cover most damage but not fair wear and tear to the machine.
情势	我虽已退休, 但仍做些义务工作, 以便了解当前的qing2shi4.	Although I'm retired, voluntary work keeps me in the swim (of things).
评定	老师正在ping2ding4学生的作业。	The teacher is appraising the students' work.
买房	我们将按月分期付款mai3fang2。	We will pay for houses by monthly installments.
同心协力	我们保持镇定、tong2xin1-xie2li4就没有问题。	If we keep calm and stick together, we'll be all right.
靠不住	我的记忆kao4bu5zhu4。	My memory is treacherous.
买不起	那衣服太昂贵，我mai3bu5qi3。	The dress is too expensive for me to buy.
机灵鬼	他是个小ji1ling5gui3。	He is a smart boy.
凿	她用錾子来把盖子zao2开.	She used a chisel to prise off the lid.
得寸进尺	【谚】de2 cun4 jin4 chi3。	Give him an inch and he will take a yard.
割草机	园丁向我要一台旋转式ge1cao3ji1。	The gardener asked me for a rotatory lawn mower.
东山再起	他过去因失败而蒙羞，现在dong1shan1 zai4 qi3了。	He rose again from the dust of past defeats.
绞刑	你犯的这种罪不可能被处以jiao3xing2.	You can't hang for such a crime.
干草	储藏gan1cao3料的顶棚	A loft for storing hay.
名胜	旅游为了公务、娱乐或教育参观多处ming2sheng4的一次旅行	A trip with visits to various places of interest for business, pleasure, or instruction.
分界线	分隔物，fen1jie4xian4分界物或分割物，用作分配或分类	Something, such as a boundary or partition, that serves to divide or keep separate.
菜园	在我们的cai4yuan2里，我们种了茄子，黄瓜和土豆。	In our garden we have egg-plants, cucumber and potato.
陷于	电力供应中断，城市xian4yu2混乱之中。	After the failure of the electricity supplies the city was in chaos.
向后	排长叫他的士兵xiang4hou4转。	The platoon leader faced his men about.
装成	鱼在这家厂里zhuang1cheng2罐头。	The fish is canned in the factory.
伴有	辐散，散度一种天气状况，特征为：在气团均匀地散在某一地区上空，常ban4you3晴朗干燥天气	A meteorological condition characterized by the uniform expansion in volume of a mass of air over a region, usually accompanied by fair dry weather.
吞咽	那次失败是一次难以tun1yan4的苦果。	The defeat was a bitter pill to swallow.
冒险家	在非洲有很多mao4xian3jia1。	Africa is full of adventurers.
头昏脑胀	看日程表就使我tou2hun1-nao3zhang4。	Look at my schedule make my head spin.
远景	这本书将为读者展现经济思想的新yuan3jing3。	The book will open up to readers new vistas on economic thinking.
积极性	他当初的ji1ji2xing4已淡下去了.	His original enthusiasm has turned sour.
闷热	我在夏天一个men1re4的下午遇见了她。	I met her in a sultry summer afternoon.
风琴	联键音栓连接两个feng1qin2键盘使之能够同时演奏的装置	A device connecting two organ keyboards so that they may be played together.
经由	用于修饰或说明jing1you2通道到通道适配器连接的处理部件，通过这些适配器在处理机之间传递控制信息。参阅tightly－coupled。	Pertaining to processing units that are connected by means of channel-to-channel adapters that are used to pass control information between the processors.
牵线	幕后qian1xian4者如木偶戏中牵金属线或棉线的人	One who pulls wires or strings, as of puppets.
内陆	中部地区一个国家或地区的中部或nei4lu4	The middle or interior part of a country or region.
集成	抽头扑克牌戏中每一次赌注的一部分凑ji2cheng2的钱	A fund made up of a portion of each pot in a poker game.
严实	这个信封封得很yan2shi5。	The envelope was firmly sealed.
虾子	我希望用些xia1zi3酱蘸着吃。	I'd like some shrimp-roe soy sauce with it.
驶入	数百只小艇随同这艘班轮shi3ru4港湾.	Hundreds of small craft accompany the liner into harbour.
变硬	砖块在太阳下或窑里烘烤bian4ying4的模制长方形黏土砖，用作建房和铺路的材料	A molded rectangular block of clay baked by the sun or in a kiln until hard and used as a building and paving material.
指路	如果你拿着地图zhi3lu4，我就来开车。	I'll drive the car if you hold the map and navigate.
学时	朋友偶尔相聚畅谈上xue2shi2的大好时光.	The friends met occasionally to chat about the good old days at school.
和面	huo2mian4的方法很简单，只要把水和在面粉里就行了。	The way to make dough is very simple as you need only to mix flour with water.
精炼	这些石油将被jing1lian4。	The oil will be refined.
形体	扇xing2ti3形状似四分之一圆圈的机器零件或其他机械设备	A machine part or other mechanical device that is shaped like a quarter circle.
旭日	xu4ri4从这个角度看起来特别美。	The rising sun is especially beautiful to look at from this angle.
工程学	他受过担任工程师的[gong1cheng2xue2方面的]培训.	He was trained as an engineer/in engineering.
前边	他打了个呵欠，揉了揉眼睛，就到qian2bian5屋里去了。	He yawned, rubbed his eyes and went into the front room.
品性	智能并不像pin3xing4那样有影响。	It is not intellect that tells so much as character.
对质	他们让犯人与原告dui4zhi4。	They confronted the prisoner with his accusers.
夷为平地	炸弹把那座建筑yi2wei2ping2di4。	The bombs razed the building to the ground.
不必要	你不应该让士兵们冒bu4 bi4yao4的危险。	You shouldn't expose the soldiers to unnecessary risks.
廊	柱lang2有由圆柱支撑房顶的门lang2或走道，通常通往建筑物的入口处	A porch or walkway with a roof supported by columns, often leading to the entrance of a building.
电汇	主修金融学。涉及的课程有如下几门：银行业务，89分；银行与计算机，90分；贷款，92分；信用证，90分；储蓄，88分；外汇兑换，92分；dian4hui4，90分；汇款，94分；西方金融制度，92分。	Majored in banking. Courses covered are as follows: Banking operations, 89; banking and computers, 90; loans, 92; letters of credit, 90; savings, 88; foreign exchange, 92; telegraphic transfers, 90; remittances, 94; financial systems in the west, 92.
批评家	他是个经验非常丰富的导演，不至于为pi1ping2jia1们的议论而担心。	He is the director whose experience is very rich, and can't go so far as worried about the comment of critics.
难民营	政府已经建了两个nan4min2ying2。	The government has set two refugee camps.
马里兰州	州议院议员Ma3li3lan2zhou1、弗吉尼亚州和西弗吉尼亚州三州国会议员中的众议院议员	A member of a House of Delegates, the lower house of the Maryland, Virginia, or West Virginia legislature.
禁不住	她jin1bu5zhu4诱惑, 又吃了一块巧克力.	She yielded to temptation and had another chocolate.
有限公司	国际商业机器you3xian4 gong1si1昨天又在华尔街宣布了一项骇人听闻的消息，警告分析家说他们可以预期第二季度盈利至少下降百分之八十。	IBM dropped yet another bombshell on Wall Street yesterday, warning analysts to expect at least an80% slide in second-quarter earnings.
乃是	因此，对一个从事社会活动的人来讲，培养一种嗜好和新的情趣方式，nai3shi4至关重要的对策。	The cultivation of a hobby and new forms of interest is therefore a policy of first importance to a public man.
推导	换质法tui1dao3一个命题的方法	Inference of the obverse of a proposition.
摇摇欲坠	村民们撑起yao2yao2 yu4 zhui4的茅棚。	The villagers shored up sagging huts.
虚惊	部队解除了戒备状态, 原来是xu1jing1一场.	The troops (were) stood down: it was a false alarm.
波及	她也受到bo1ji2，但程度较轻。	She had also been affected, but to a lesser degree.
白细胞	嗜中性染料的不一定非用酸性或碱性染剂染色不可的，也易于用中性染剂染色的，尤其指bai2xi4bao1	Not stained strongly or definitely by either acid or basic dyes but stained readily by neutral dyes. Used especially of white blood cells.
影集	剪贴簿，ying3ji2，签名薄有空白页以便插入或存放收集品，如邮票、照片或签名的本子	A book with blank pages for the insertion and preservation of collections, as of stamps, photographs, or autographs.
奸诈	她的钱被一个jian1zha4的会计骗去了。	She was defrauded of her money by a dishonest accountant.
式样	那种新shi4yang4不久就失去了吸引力。	The new fashion soon lost its appeal.
示威者	他们要求shi4wei1zhe3和平解散.	They called for the peaceful dispersal of the demonstrators.
忍气吞声	她ren3qi4-tun1sheng1地继续进行下去。	She swallowed her anger and carried on.
灾祸	这些情况预示著要有zai1huo4.	These developments forebode disaster.
榨汁机	zha4zhi1ji1，榨汁器用来榨取水果和蔬菜的汁液的器具	An appliance that is used to extract juice from fruits and vegetables.
夸耀	那没有什么值得kua1yao4的。	That nothing to boast of.
不对劲	他快步跑回家，看上去好像有什么事bu4 dui4jin4。	He quickly ran home, looking as if there was something wrong with him.
头大	tou2da4是不是表示智慧高？	Is a large head indicative of high intelligence?
头上	如果你到今晚把手tou2shang5的工作做完，你明天就可以休息。	Provided/Providing (that) you clear your desk by this evening, you can have tomorrow off.
空难	那是历史上最严重的kong1nan4。	That was the worst airline disaster in history.
度量	为了du4liang4物质，我们必须有重量，容积和长度的单位。	For the tolerance substance, we must have weight, volume and the units of length.
详尽	今天报纸上登载了总统访问的xiang2jin4报道.	Today's papers carry full reports of the President's visit.
胆汁	dan3zhi1质（暴躁）的哲学家的世界观，要加上一小撮盐方能接受，惟以泻盐为较佳。	A bilious philosopher's opinion of the world can only be accepted with a pinch of salt, of epsom salt by preference.
仰天	想起自己坎坷的一生，他不由yang3tian1长叹。	He could not but look up to the sky and sigh deeply when his lifetime of frustrations passed through his mind.
降雪	这里年平均jiang4xue3量为10厘米.	The average snowfall here is 10cm a year.
严惩	危险驾驶应受yan2cheng2。	Dangerous driving should be severely punished.
甘于	最后，如果一个人竟能像《圣经》中的圣保罗那样，肯为了兄弟们的得救甚至gan1yu2忍受神的诅咒；那么他就必定超越了凡人，而且有真正基督徒的品格了。	But above all, if he has St. Paul's perfection, that he would wish to be anathema from Christ, for the salvation of his brethren, it shows much of a divine nature, and a kind of conformity with Christ himself.
原材料	问题是我们怎样得到yuan2-cai2liao4。	The problem is how we are to get the raw material.
火山口	小huo3shan1kou3一种底部平坦、大致呈圆形的火山爆发后形成的盛满水的低洼地	A flat-bottomed, roughly circular volcanic crater of explosive origin that is often filled with water.
全文	你读过那本书的quan2wen2版本吗？	Have you read the unabridged edition of that book?
还款	请您放心，huan2kuan3是有保障的。	Please rest assured that repayment is ensured.
用光	印刷油墨yong4guang1了。	The printing ink has been used up.
无邪	尽管他已三十岁了，但还是孩子般的wu2xie2。	Although thirty, he is childlike.
解剖学	局部jie3pou1xue2对某一解剖后的局部或部分的研究或描述	The study or description of an anatomical region or part.
商谈	劳资双方仍在shang1tan2制订和解方案.	Managers and workers are still working out a peace formula.
瞬	星期六的下午象闪电一样转shun4即逝!	Saturday afternoons go by like lightning!
趋	物价渐qu1稳定.	Prices are steadying.
腮腺炎	因为sai1xian4yan2她接连卧床好几星期	She is bed- ride with the mumps for week on end.
序曲	观众必须于xu4qu3演奏前入座。	The audience must be in their seats before the overture.
乘船	如果我cheng2chuan2旅行，我们可以欣赏泰晤士河沿岸的动人景色。	If we take a boat trip, we can enjoy the magnificent sights along the Thames.
排场	她每举办舞会，总喜欢搞得很pai2chang5。	If ever she gives a party she likes to do it in style.
趣闻	她的日记发表後, 补充了一些有关这些事件的qu4wen2.	There was an interesting postscript to these events when her private diaries were published.
幼年	人类是在you4nian2开始学习第一种语言的。	Mankind learns its first language in early childhood.
为首	wei2shou3的那个自行车手很快就要从那个转角处绕过来。	The leading cyclist will be coming round that corner any minute now!
分级	R级，电影的限制级一种电影fen1ji2，允许一定年龄以下（通常为17岁）的人在家长或保护人陪同下才能观看	A movie rating that allows admission only to persons of a certain age, usually17, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
汪洋	人生，再好也不过是wang1yang2苦海罢了。	Life is, at best, a sea of trouble.
天王星	我们太阳系的行星有水星、金星、地球、火星、木星、土星、Tian1wang2xing1和海王星。	The planets of our solar system are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.
逃之夭夭	听到他tao2 zhi1 yao1yao1的消息，我感到惊讶。	I was astonished at the news of his escape.
贝鲁特	可以中途在Bei4lu3te4停留吗？	Be it possible to stop over at beirut?
吊床	diao4chuang2一种易摆动的diao4chuang2或躺椅，用帆布或厚网挂在两树或别的支撑物之间	A hanging, easily swung cot or lounge of canvas or heavy netting suspended between two trees or other supports.
浮标	航道有fu2biao1标明.	The channel is marked by buoys.
出毛病	我们的新洗衣机老chu1 mao2bing4－－完全是因为做的质量太差。	Our new washing-machine keeps breaking down it's entirely due to shoddy workmanship.
无异	他向她讲解那音乐的妙处，可是这wu2yi4于对牛弹琴。	He explained the beauty of the music to her but it was casting pearls before swine.
访客	我是专指永久居民而言, 以别於临时fang3ke4.	I refer specifically to permanent residents, in contradistinction to temporary visitors.
讨人厌	我姑姑有时候还真有点tao3ren2yan4.	My aunt can be a bit of a terror.
岛国	乔治敦开曼群dao3guo2的首都，在西印度群岛中牙买加西面的大加曼岛上。它是一个国际性的金融中心。人口7，617	The capital of the Cayman Islands, on Grand Cayman in the West Indies west of Jamaica. It is an international banking center. Population, 7,617.
筛子	我们可以用一个shai1zi5把石头分离出来。	We can separate the stones out with a sieve.
镜框	那个jing4kuang4的斜角已被损坏了。	The bevel of that picture frame was damaged.
高耸	我们的办事处的大楼高gao1song3立在城市上空。	High above the city, stood the build of our office.
触目惊心	看到战争造成的荒凉，他感到chu4mu4-jing1xin1。	He felt startled when he saw the desolation caused by war.
甚至于	约翰shen4zhi4yu2不说一声“谢谢”就离开了。	John left without so much as saying""Thank you.""
字符	印字宽度的单位，以一英寸直线距离上能安置的zi4fu2数计。	A unit of type width based on the number of times a character can be set in one linear inch.
射箭	she4jian4运动员，弓箭手用弓箭射击的技艺、运动或技巧	The art, sport, or skill of shooting with a bow and arrow.
赶跑	部队向前进, gan3pao3了敌人.	The enemy was put to flight by the advancing army.
窝藏	wo1cang2罪犯是犯法的。	Harboring criminals is an offence in law.
种花	格雷在一小块地下开始zhong4hua1，如今他的生意确实十分红火，英格兰各地都有他的花店。	Gray started growing flowers on a small piece of land. Now he has really made it big and owns flower shops all over England.
报时	天气预报之後即为6点钟bao4shi2信号.	The weather forecast is followed by the pips at 6 o'clock.
强国	世界各大qiang2guo2均惟恐在军备竞赛中落後.	The major world powers are afraid of falling behind in the arms race.
王宫	wang2gong1发言人刚宣布了一项声明.	The palace (ie A spokesman for the king, queen, etc) has just issued a statement.
污染物	物理学家们正在研究对环境危害少的发电新方法，与此同时，许多发电厂也在实现现代化以减少wu1ran3wu4质的释放量。	Physicists are studying new ways of generating electricity with less damage to the environment. In the meantime, many power plants are being modernized to give off less polluting material.
仇敌	他移居到一个遥远的国家，在那里他觉得能摆脱chou2di2，可以平平安安地生活。	He emigrated to a distant country, where he felt he could live in safety from his enemies.
半条命	ban4tiao2ming4也比全无气息强。	Half a life is better than no breath.
吸入	呼吸气量测定器；肺活量计用以测量肺部xi1ru4或呼出空气的力量或体积的一种仪器	An instrument for measuring the force or volume of inspiration or expiration in the lungs.
苦味	有些啤酒和巧克力有ku3wei4。	Some beer and chocolate taste bitter.
救死扶伤	护理工作既是职业又是jiu4si3-fu2shang1的责任。	Nursing is a vocation as well as a profession.
织物	一种坚韧的全天候zhi1wu4	A tough all-weather fabric.
授课	她给私人shou4ke4以贴补收入.	She gives private lessons to supplement her income.
砰砰	把门朝后绑牢，它在风里不停地来回peng1peng1作响。""	Tie the door back-it keeps banging to and fro in the wind.""
抽打	他狠命地chou1da3那头可怜的驴.	He gave the poor donkey a terrible lashing.
耳聋	她头部受伤以致终身er3long2.	The head injury deafened her for life.
长谈	我和她chang2tan2了一次。	I had a long talk with her.
碎石	他们在sui4shi2小径上散步。	They went out for a walk on the gravelled path.
风口	他坐在feng1kou3上，着凉了。	He sat in a draught and catch a cold.
水性	趋shui3xing4一个有机物对水分的反应而产生的运动	Movement of an organism in response to moisture.
修订	已经决定这本书要重新xiu1ding4。	It has been decided that the book shall be revised.
有损	这种错误会you3sun3你的事业。	Such a mistake would mar your career.
申请人	问题之一是shen1qing3ren2不得不面对的官僚主义。	One of the problems is the bureaucracy the claimant has to face.
脱险	她已恢复了知觉, 但尚未tuo1xian3.	She's regained consciousness, but she's not out of the woods (ie sure to recover) yet.
月台	当一行人到达yue4tai2上时，火车正从车站开出。	The train was pulled out as the party arrived on the platform.
官僚主义	guan1liao2zhu3yi4的流毒拖慢了我们的进步.	The dead hand of bureaucracy is slowing our progress.
熔	黄铜是由铜和锌rong2合制成的。	Brass is formed by the fusion of copper and zinc.
线圈	自耦变压器一种电力变压器，其初级xian4quan1与次级xian4quan1部分或全部共用	An electrical transformer in which the primary and secondary coils have some or all windings in common.
寡	这家剧院光顾者gua3只好关闭。	The theatre has had to close for lack of support.
旗杆	大厦上有个被风折断的qi2gan1。	There is a flagpole broken by wind on the building.
稳定性	翼剖面；机翼；翼面一个部件或平面，如机翼、螺旋桨叶、方向舵等，其形状或方位控制wen3ding4xing4、方向、抬升、冲击或驱动	A part or surface, such as a wing, propeller blade, or rudder, whose shape and orientation control stability, direction, lift, thrust, or propulsion.
服务费	饭馆帐单上已加了10%的fu2wu4fei4.	An extra 10% was added to the restaurant bill for service.
伯明翰	我利用在Bo2ming2han4的机会探望了我的姨母。	I took the opportunity of visiting my aunt while I was in Birmingham.
青年人	根据法律规定qing1nian2ren2年满十八岁必须参军。	According to the law, a young man should enlist when he is18.""
匀称	不对称的，不yun2chen4的失去平衡或对称性的	Having no balance or symmetry.
左转	在第二个转弯处向zuo3zhuan3。	Take the second turning on the left.
棉布	在所有商品中, 我对mian2bu4特别感兴趣。	Among all the merchandise, I was interested in the cotton piece in particular.
不计其数	水灾过後无家可归的人bu4 ji4 qi2 shu4.	It's impossible to put a figure on the number of homeless after the flood.
渊博	他知识yuan1bo2给听众留下了深刻的印象.	He impressed his audience by the profundity of his knowledge.
空格	用来分隔或组织计算机程序元素或数据元素的字符或字符串。例如括号、kong4ge2符、算术运算符、if（如果）、“BEGIN＂等。	A string of one or more characters used to separate or organize elements of computer programs or data; for example, parentheses, blank character, arithmetic operator, if,""BEGIN"".
尖刻	那个女人说话非常jian1ke4。	That woman has a very sharp tongue.
毒打	他向警方提供情报而遭那群歹徒du2da3.	He'd been worked over by the gang for giving information to the police.
奋勇	这艘船在波涛中fen4yong3前进。	The ship buffeted through the big waves.
自治	一个早期的国家，还没有zi4zhi4	An embryonic nation, not yet self-governing.
满头大汗	他man3tou2-da4han4.	Sweat was pouring down his face.
蚂蚱	从我搬进城里以后，我有好几年没见过ma4zha5了。	I hadn't seen a grasshopper for years since I moved into the city.
上马	他跳shang4ma3, 朝寺庙方向飞奔而去。	He jumped onto the horse and galloped in the direction of the temple.
小汽车	xiao3qi4che1的前面有一个凹痕.	The front of the car has a dent in it.
胳膊肘	他洗衬衫时, 连ge1bo5zhou3都弄上了肥皂泡沫.	He was up to his elbows in soapsuds, washing his shirts.
狂乱	在一阵痛恨的kuang2luan4中，他杀死了敌人。	In a frenzy of hate he killed his enemy.
移到	他把桌子yi2dao4房间中心。	He moved the table over to the center of the room.
渗出	汗从毛孔中shen4chu1.	Sweat exudes through the pores.
古时	gu3shi2认为一般金属能变成黄金.	In former times it was thought that ordinary metal could be transmuted into gold.
中肯	所有的顾问当中, 只有王先生提了一些zhong4ken3的建议。	Of all the consultants, only Mr. Wang gave us some proposals in point.
多佛	这艘船运行Duo1fo2--加莱航线.	The boat operates on the Dover-Calais run.
狂怒	极度的kuang2nu4使妻子不但在家里，而且还在外头破口大骂。	It was more than blind rage which led the wife to swear outside as well as in.
传真机	请用chuan2zhen1ji1把新目录的版面编排图样传送给我.	Please fax me the layout for the new catalogue.
酬金	警察是不允许接受chou2jin1的。	The police are not allowed to accept rewards.
啄	那鸟在冰上zhuo2出了一个洞.	The bird picked a hole in the ice with its beak.
两侧	粗厚起绒呢料用低档羊毛布料制成的，liang3ce4有绒毛的制毯织物	A blanket fabric made of low-grade woolen cloth with a nap on both sides.
祝酒	请各位将酒杯斟满, 向新娘、 新郎zhu4jiu3!	Please charge your glasses and drink a toast to the bride and groom!
朱丽亚	Zhu1li4ya4的宁静端庄给人印象很深。	There was something impressive about Julia's quiet dignity.
废料	盛有核fei4liao4的密封容器被丢在海里。	Sealed containers of nuclear waste have been dumped in the sea.
天涯海角	即便是tian1ya2-hai3jiao3我也要跟随他。	I will follow him to the uttermost parts of the earth.
吞没	火焰tun1mo4了房子。	The fire swallowed up the house.
主旨	论点，zhu3zhi3，主题标题当中显示出来的主题、论点或题材	A theme, an argument, or a subject indicated in a title.
正方形	zheng4fang1xing2有四个角儿; 立方体有八个角儿.	A square has four corners; a cube has eight.
橡木	xiang4mu4是制作家具的好材料.	Oak is a good type of wood for making furniture.
碱性	因为除去钢中的磷和硫需要一些特殊的条件，这些条件只有jian3xing4法才能满足。	Because the removal of phosphorus and sulfur require special condition that can be met only by the basic process.
种地	我的朋友在威尔士的农场zhong4di4。	My friend is farming in Wales.
过重	超载的装载过多的或负担guo4zhong4的	Loaded or burdened too heavily.
富商	许多fu4shang1靠极其残酷地践踏别人而爬了上去。	Many a rich businessman reached the top by trampling on others in the most brutal way.
内行	她自称精通计算机，其实她是假充nei4hang2。	She claims to know all about computers but really she's a sham.
断言	确定，鉴定对效力的正式duan4yan2	A formal assertion of validity.
夺走	去年癌症duo2zou3了他姐姐的生命。	Cancer carried his sister off last year.
小酌	我父亲xiao3zhuo2之後，就变得开朗可亲些，话也说得多了。	My father expanded a little when he have have a drink, and start to talk more freely.
磁盘	我们复制了计算机ci2pan2以防意外。	We make copies of our computer disks as a safeguard against accidents.
爱国主义	他们中大多数侨民是ai4guo2zhu3yi4者。	Most emigrants among them are patriots.
齐声	人们qi2sheng1欢呼: ｀国王万岁!＇	The whole crowd took up the cry: `Long live the King!'
招揽	各商行互相竞争以zhao1lan3顾客。	Businesses vied with each other to attract customers.
合家欢	他给我看一张he2jia1huan1的照片。	He showed me a photo of a family group.
手巧	制作小模型要shou3qiao3。	Making small models requires manual skill.
深长	他说完话，接着是一段意味shen1chang2的停顿。	His words were followed by a pregnant pause.
手绢	我丢了一块带蓝色花边的白shou3juan4。	I lost a white handkerchief with a blue border.
改建	他把一间屋子gai3jian4成了卧室。	He altered one of the rooms into a bedroom.
研磨	下等金刚石结晶很差的金刚石，用于工业切割和yan2mo2	Poorly crystallized diamonds used for industrial cutting and abrasion.
连长	lian2zhang3说军队生活可以使新兵锻炼得更坚强。	The company leader said that army life would toughen the recruits up.
炉火	把你的椅子转向lu2huo3一边.	Turn your chair round to the fire.
自讨苦吃	如果你在雾天去爬山，你是在zi4 tao3 ku3 chi1。	If you climb mountain in fog, you are asking for it.
长满	夏天时，山坡上zhang3man3了花草。	The hillside is covered by grass and flowers in summer.
守旧	这个人显示出对戏剧界的shou3jiu4态度。	The man displayed provincial attitudes towards the theatre.
铺设	工人们正在道路下面pu1she4管道。	The workers are laying pipes under the road.
尼龙	她用细ni2long2线把珠子串了起来。	She strung the beads with a fine nylon.
不善	bu4shan4交际的缺乏社会风度的；不圆滑的	Lacking social polish; tactless.
磁力	ci2li4是一种自然现象。	Magnetism is a natural phenomenon.
菌类	霉，霉菌通常在植物或多种有机物表面形成白色生长物的jun1lei4中的一种	Any of various fungi that form a superficial, usually whitish growth on plants and various organic materials.
临别	在以后的岁月中，他一直记着她lin2bie2时的一吻。	He remembered her parting kiss in the following years.
课文	咱们把ke4wen2[生词]再复习一遍。	Let's go over the lesson[new words]again.
通讯员	一名tong1xun4yuan2被派去给前线士兵送消息。	A messenger was despatched to take the news to the soldiers at the front.
沟渠	堤岸，小路高出的堤岸或小路，如沿着一条gou1qu2的堤岸或小路	A raised bank or path, such as one along a canal.
熔炉	挡板，调节风门一种可调节的薄片，如在rong2lu2或火炉的通气管中的，用来控制气流	An adjustable plate, as in the flue of a furnace or stove, for controlling the draft.
把持	这俱乐部被知识分子小集团ba3chi2著.	The club is dominated by a small clique of intellectuals.
组织者	zu3zhi1zhe3熟悉国王出访的礼仪.	The organizer was familiar with the protocol of royal visits.
柳树	那男孩是在城里长大的，所以觉得很难区别杨树和liu3shu4。	Bring up in town, the boy find it difficult to separate a poplar from a willow.
映衬	在夜空的ying4chen4下显出大树的轮廓。	The huge trees were profiled against the night sky.
推算	科学家tui1suan4出宇宙飞船抵达月球的时间。	The scientists calculated when the spacecraft would reach the moon.
慢跑	有氧健身法旨在增强循环和呼吸功效的生理调节体系，包括有力的、持久的锻炼，例如man4pao3、游泳或骑自行车，从而提高肌体对氧气的利用	A system of physical conditioning designed to enhance circulatory and respiratory efficiency that involves vigorous, sustained exercise, such as jogging, swimming, or cycling, thereby improving the body's utilization of oxygen.
帐单	这些村子里的农民常常以实物偿付zhang4dan1。	Farmers in these small villages often pay their bills in kind.
捉拿	警方还未得到可zhuo1na2这个罪犯的足够情报。	The police haven't got enough information to catch the criminal.
叫嚷	他盛怒之下，对我们大声jiao4rang3。	In a blaze of anger he shouted at us.
废铁	这艘船拆毁了当fei4tie3用.	The ship was broken up for scrap metal.
心旷神怡	这支歌的乐曲使她xin1kuang4-shen2yi2。	The music of this song sent her carefree and joyous.
低廉	本星期买胡萝卜和洋白菜最合算，因货源充足，价格di1lian2。	Best buy of the week are carrot and cabbage, which are plentiful and cheap.
名册	你的名字已登记在选民ming2ce4上了吗？	Have you got your name on the electoral register?
面的	前方直接在前mian4di1地区、部位或位置	The area, location, or position directly before or ahead.
纤	把xian1维捻成线束的人	One that twists fibers into thread.
铁锹	士兵们用tie3qiao1在丛林中开出一条道路。	The soldiers cut a passage through the jungle with their spades.
蠕虫	泥土中有许多ru2chong2.	There are a lot of worms in the soil.
字母表	把这些字按zi4mu3biao3顺序排列起来.	Put these words in alphabetical order.
毫不留情	敌人冲破了前线，但被我们的骑兵部队hao2 bu4 liu2 qing2地从高地击退。	The enemy broke through the front line, but were firmly repulsed from the higher ground by cavalry.
保护性	运动员护身一种运动员用的护身弹性织物，有用bao3hu4xing4的坚硬塑料或金属制成的加强层	An athletic supporter having a protective reinforcement of rigid plastic or metal.
抗辩	kang4bian4一种表示反对的方法即：同意对方论据中的事实，但是否定对方基于这些事实的辩护	A method of objecting that admits the facts of the opponent's argument but denies that they sustain the pleading based upon them.
赏心悦目	shang3xin1-yue4mu4的生动描述	A luscious, vivid description.
动工	未经委员会批准，我们不能dong4gong1。	We can't start building without the council's approval.
强身	好的饮食习惯有助于qiang2shen1防病。	Good eating habits help to fortify the body against disease.
芦苇	池塘里有些lu2wei3。	There are some reeds in the pond.
皇族	刹帝利四个印度种姓中的第二级，负责执法和维护社会安定。在古代印度，它由huang2zu2和武士阶层构成；在现代印度，它表示职业、统治和军事阶层	The second of the four Hindu classes, responsible for upholding justice and social harmony. In ancient India this was the royal or warrior class; in modern India, the professional, governing, or military class.
畏缩	你太wei4suo1了--要尽量增强自信心.	You're too timid you must try to assert yourself more.
美的	我认为秋天是一年中最Mei3di2季节。	I think autumn is the most beautiful season in a year.
低劣	劣等狗一种被视为di1lie4的或不受欢迎的狗；杂种狗	A dog considered to be inferior or undesirable; a mongrel.
怀胎	牟利罗，巴托洛米奥·埃斯特巴1617－1682西班牙风俗、肖像和宗教题材的画家，比如圣灵huai2tai11668	Spanish painter of genre scenes, portraits, and religious subjects, such as Immaculate Conception(1668).
忧心忡忡	you1xin1-chong1chong1的家长们开了一次会。	Concerned parents held a meeting.
圆珠笔	你用yuan2zhu1bi3或铅笔书写均可.	You may write in biro or pencil.
敌手	她拿自己的力量和危险的di2shou3进行较量	She measured her power with that of a dangerous adversary.
不同凡响	具有bu4tong2 fan2xiang3的深度和流畅性的一次钢琴演奏	A piano performance of particular depth and fluidity.
售票处	我赶紧到shou4piao4chu4。	I hurried to the ticket-office.
蝗虫	huang2chong2把树上的叶子都吃光了。	Locust had stripped the leaves off the trees.
加法	这个小女孩不太善于做jia1fa3。	The little girl is not very clever at addition.
石碑	我宁愿照顾活人的肚子，也不愿以shi2bei1的形式来照顾死者的荣耀。	I'd rather take care of the stomachs of the living than (take care of) the glory of the dead in the form of stone memorials.
鲜亮	这些栗子是xian1liang5的红褐色。	These chestnuts are of bright reddish-brown.
水量	夏天那条小河的shui3liang4减少，成了涓涓溪流。	The stream is reduced to a mere trickle in summer.
血本	贴在窗上的海报写着：所有的电冰箱、洗衣机和吸尘哭降价5％，许多其它家用电器也赔xue4ben3出售。	The poster on the window read:5% reduction on all refrigerators, washing-machines and vacuum cleaners. Many other household appliances at cut-throat prices.
就餐	我刚才只是主张应该外出jiu4can1，以节省时间。	I am merely putt forward toe opinion(that) we shall dine out to save time.
一遍	那个字你再拼yi1 bian4好吗？	Could you spell that word out for me again?
紧扣	拉链由平行的金属、塑料或尼龙的齿状物制成的，在开口临近边缘上被滑动的拉环锁住的jin3kou4物	A fastening device consisting of parallel rows of metal, plastic, or nylon teeth on adjacent edges of an opening that are interlocked by a sliding tab.
碰运气	这兄弟俩决定去美国碰peng4 yun4qi4。	These two brothers decided to go to America to try their fortunes.
珊瑚礁	那艘船触shan1hu2jiao1失事.	The ship was wrecked on a coral reef.
茅屋	mao2wu1用木杆搭成，上面以草席覆盖。	The hut was made of poles covered with grass mats.
检阅	总统抵达时, jian3yue4了仪仗队.	On his arrival the president inspected the guard of honour.
中游	他在生活中甘居zhong1you2。	He prefers a happy medium in life.
天文学家	tian1wen2xue2jia1现在能看到的星星的数目，多得简直令人头晕目眩。	The number of stars now visible to the astronomers makes one's brain reel.
空谈	行动胜于kong1tan2。	Actions speak louder than words.
神学	他们正争论shen2xue2上的问题。	They are having a theological argument.
闭幕	交易会定于5月30日bi4mu4。	The Fair is scheduled to close on May30.
动乱	不停的dong4luan4和日常生活的平凡活动看来会阻碍或者至少会使人不能安静地集中思考。	The incessant hurry and trivial activity of daily life seem to prevent, or at least, discourage quiet and intensive thinking.
一团	有yi1 tuan2疑云笼罩著他.	A cloud of suspicion is hanging over him.
七上八下	我没来得及把每件事都安排好, 因此心里qi1shang4ba1xia4的.	I haven't had time to arrange everything, so I'm all at sixes and sevens.
做礼拜	他常去那个教堂zuo4 li3bai4。	He is a regular worshiper at that church.
账目	我试图将zhang4mu4核实一下，但变更或销掉zhang4mu4实在太多，真是令人头痛。	I tried to check the accounts but there are so many entries altered or crossed out that it makes one's mind boggle.
盟军	meng2jun1数以百计的飞机轰炸了那个国家。	The allied warplanes bombed the country by the hundred.
寻欢作乐	我昨晚在城里xun2huan1-zuo4le4——怪不得今天早晨我头痛。	I spent last night on the town-no wonder I've got a headache this morning.
罗布	比赛结束前十分钟luo2bu4森上场替代威尔金斯.	Robson came on in place of Wilkins ten minutes before the end of the game.
平底锅	我往ping2di3guo1里打了两个鸡蛋。	I cracked two eggs into the frying pan.
检修	所有汽车都需要定期jian3xiu1.	All cars require servicing regularly.
如火如荼	随着选举临近，党组织的活动也ru2huo3-ru2tu2。	The party organization is moving into top gear as the election approaches.
想入非非	他好xiang3ru4 fei1fei1, 觉得自己赢了一块金牌.	He liked to fantasize that he had won a gold medal.
历史学家	对于历史上的事件，当时的报道往往比现代li4shi3xue2jia1的评述更为有趣。	Contemporary reports of the past events are often more interesting than modern historians' view of them.
归类	该杂志被gui1lei4成淫秽出版物，已被海关没收。	The magazine is classed as an obscene publication and seized by the customs.
支气管炎	在潮湿天气，她经常犯zhi1qi4guan3yan2。	She often gets chesty in wet weather.
保险费	她要求赔款遭到拒绝, 原因是她事先没有交纳bao3xian3fei4.	Her claim was disallowed on the ground(s) that she had not paid her premium.
众矢之的	任何知名人士都要冒风险，会成为通俗刊物的zhong4 shi3 zhi1 di4。	Any public figure risks being made an Aunt Sally by the popular press.
紧缩	政府决定jin3suo1通货.	The Government decided to deflate.
恰如其分	他引用莎士比亚的话是qia4 ru2 qi2 fen4的。	His quotation from Shakespeare is appropriate.
香炉	和尚在xiang1lu2里焚上一柱香。	The monk burned a stick of incense in the incense burner.
外星	那只wai4xing1来的宇宙飞船在公园上空盘旋了一会儿之后就不见了。	After the alien spacecraft had hovered over the park for a short time, it vanished.
遮蔽	我们设法寻找zhe1bi4暴风雨的地方。	We tried to find cover from the storm.
赞不绝口	他对她的善良zan4 bu4 jue2 kou3。	He keeps extolling her goodness.
拮据	jie2ju1极度缺乏或贫穷；贫困	Extreme want or poverty; destitution.
指日可待	我们为之奋斗的最可贵的事物--世界和平--已zhi3 ri4 ke3 dai4.	The greatest prize of all world peace is now within our grasp.
原稿	此诗现存最早的yuan2gao3收藏在这座博物馆里。	The earliest extant manuscript of this poem has been kept in the museum.
不胜	｀感谢你让我们观赏你所收藏的画.＇｀同欢共赏, bu4sheng4荣幸.＇	`Thank you for showing us your collection of paintings.' `It's my privilege (ie I am honoured to do so).'
锐气	年轻人特有的热情和rui4qi4在这些人当中没有多大表现。	The fire and dash pertaining to youth are not much in evidence among these people.
不由	想起自己坎坷的一生，他bu4you2仰天长叹。	He could not but look up to the sky and sigh deeply when his lifetime of frustrations passed through his mind.
栖息地	海上养殖在海洋生物的天然qi1xi1di4养殖这些生物，通常是出于商业目的	Cultivation of marine organisms in their natural habitats, usually for commercial purposes.
势均力敌	这些争论彼此shi4jun1-li4di2。	These arguments cancel each other out.
册子	签名册亲笔签名组成的ce4zi5	Autographs considered as a group.
操之过急	叫他保持冷静，不要cao1zhi1-guo4ji2。	Tell him to keep calm and not to crowd the mourners.
刻度	这把尺上有厘米的ke4du4和英寸的ke4du4.	This ruler has one scale in centimetres and another in inches.
粗心大意	他因cu1xin1-da4yi4而丢了工作.	His carelessness lost him the job.
原作	这幅画的yuan2zuo4在大英博物馆内。	The original picture is in the British Museum.
奉行	政府正feng4xing2不干预政策。	The government is pursuing a policy of non-intervention.
美籍	贝特，汉斯·阿尔布雷希生于1906德裔Mei3ji2物理学家。因其对恒星能量产生的研究而获1967年诺贝尔奖	German-born American physicist. He won a1967 Nobel Prize for research on the energy production of stars.
军阀	所有这些运动都受到jun1fa2政府的镇压。	All these movements were suppressed by the warlord government.
疲乏	我出了一趟远门，很pi2fa2。	I'm tired out. I've had a long journey.
医科	他是yi1ke1毕业生。	He is a graduate in medicine.
泥沼	坦克陷入ni2zhao3之中.	The tank (got) bogged down in the mud.
一尘不染	我决不接受贿赂, yi1chen2-bu4ran3.	I wouldn't sully my hands by acceptinga bribe.
听写	教师正在给班上的学生做ting1xie3。	The teacher was dictating to the class.
凹陷	这辆汽车後部在碰撞中造成很大的ao1xian4.	The back of the car was badly dented in a collision.
谬论	不合逻辑的推论，miu4lun4错误的或不合逻辑的观点或结论	A fallacious or illogical argument or conclusion.
胸有成竹	必须对实情xiong1 you3 cheng2zhu2才能理直气壮地（到处）指责（别人）.	You must be certain of your facts before you start flinging accusations (around) (at people).
比对	对着英、美的一般大众当萧伯纳（挖苦人家），总bi3dui4着自己的家人当萧伯纳来得容易。	It's easier to be a Bernard Shaw to the British or American public than it is to be a Bernard Shaw to your own family.
申请书	经理收到了二十份求职shen1qing3shu1。	The manager received twenty applications for the post.
自掘坟墓	你继续这样大量吸烟，就是在zi4jue2-fen2mu4。	You are just digging your own grave if you go on smoking so heavily.
帘	门前挂着一幅门lian2。	A portiere was hanging in front of the door.
要事	我有yao4shi4要处理。	I have a matter of importance to deal with.
生物学家	这一发现为sheng1wu4xue2jia1展示了新的研究前景.	This discovery opens up new vistas of research for biologists.
不易	这样严竣的法令bu4yi4实施.	Such a strict law is not easily enforceable.
发电厂	新建的fa1dian4chang3能够满足我们对廉价能源的需求吗?	Will the new power-station be able to supply our cheap energy requirements?
价值连城	那幅画一定jia4 zhi2 lian2cheng2.	That painting must be worth a king's ransom.
桥牌	喂，把qiao2pai2轰出去吧；让咱们找个更愉快的方式一同难受好了。	I say banishing bridge; let's find some pleasant way of being miserable together.
飞机票	因fei1ji1piao4涨价, 他们在度假费用中向我们增收了10%附加费.	They've surcharged us 10% on the price of the holiday because of a rise in air fares.
百货公司	哈罗德bai3huo4 gong1si1的陈列品是伦敦一景.	The displays in Harrods are one of the sights in London.
函	感谢你方寄来的电冰箱报价han2。	Thank you for your quotation for the refrigerators.
本着	我们应当ben3zhe5既往不咎的原则重新合伙。	We should let bygones be bygones and try to get along with each other.
调色	中间色，半tiao2se4在光线最强处与黑色暗影之间的一种色调或明暗的配合	A tone or value halfway between a highlight and a dark shadow.
退却	我们作了一次战略性tui4que4，以便我们能积蓄力量再次进攻。	We made a strategic withdrawal, so that we could build up our forces for a renewed attack.
寸步难行	国际法这一领域, 不熟悉其复杂性则cun4bu4-nan2xing2.	International law is a minefield for anyone not familiar with its complexity.
平价	ping2jia4制度为保证在选定的基期内农民具有相同的购买力而主要由政府支持的农产品价格水平	A level for farm-product prices maintained by governmental support and intended to give farmers the same purchasing power they had during a chosen base period.
周期性	（同步电动机的）速度偏差同步电机运行速度的zhou1qi1xing4变化	The periodic variation in speed of a synchronous motor with respect to the current.
其后	这位下级行政官员急不可待地想晋升，但他知道只有待某人死后或退休后才能步qi2hou4尘，谋取其职。	The junior executive was impatient for promotion but knew that he would only get it by stepping into a dead man's shoes.
灾区	目前正将医药用品空投到zai1qu1.	Medical supplies are being dropped to the stricken area.
雷雨	在lei2yu3期间不要站在树下。	Don't stand under a tree during a thunderstorm.
伤残	shang1can2人士在治疗中, 自助自立是个重要因素.	Self-help is an important element in therapy for the handicapped.
斑斓	你见过热带鸟类色彩ban1lan2的羽毛吗？	Have you seen the brightly-coloured plumage of tropical birds?
本地人	我问了一位ben3di4ren2，该走哪条路。	I asked one of the locals which way to go.
有成	他表现出了事业you3cheng2的经理人员所具有的一切品质.	He incarnates all the qualities of a successful manager.
橡皮筋	他把xiang4pi2jin1啪的一声拉断了.	He stretched the rubber band till it snapped.
怒气冲冲	他拒绝接受选举结果，起身nu4qi4chong1chong1地离开了会场。	Refusing to accept the decision of the vote, he got up and stormed out of the meeting.
被褥	羽绒被一种经常有可换洗被罩的被子，可以用来代替bei4ru4或床单	A quilt, usually with a washable cover, that may be used in place of a bedspread and top sheet.
直通	一辆直达的公共汽车；一张zhi2tong1票	A through bus; a through ticket.
丛生	那场旱灾过後疾病cong2sheng1.	Outbreaks of disease occurred in the wake of the drought.
陶器	在集市场上有tao2qi4制作的示范表演.	There's an exhibition of pottery-making at the fair.
缺货	商店趁一时que1huo4而提高价格从中获利。	The shop is cashed in on temporary shortage by raising price.
申辩	我指出那方案的缺点, 但他shen1bian4说各项计划尚未完成.	I pointed out the shortcomings of the scheme, but he countered that the plans were not yet finished.
游泳衣	把你的you2yong3yi1里的水拧出去.	Wring the water out of your wet bathing costume.
粘液	你的大便里有血或nian2ye4吗？	Be there any blood or mucus in your stool?
轻音乐	客人们说他们不反对听听qing1yin1yue4。	The guests said that they wouldn't mind having a little light music.
深造	她决定在获得学士学位之後继续shen1zao4.	She decided to pursue her studies after obtaining her first degree.
渔业	这艘船从事远洋yu2ye4。	The ship is engaged in pelagic fishery.
满腔	他man3qiang1怒火。	He was inflamed with anger.
个位	ge4wei4在阿拉伯数字系统中紧靠在小数点左边的数字	The number immediately to the left of the decimal point in the Arabic numeral system.
醉人	祝福夫君生日快乐，你给流逝的岁月增添了zui4ren2的情意，你让平凡的事情发出耀眼的光芒，感谢你已成为我生命中特别重要的一部分。	Happy birthday to my dear husband. You add a special happiness to days that come and go. You give an extra sparkle to the ordinary things. It's so nice to have you being a special part of my life.
大骂	他来回走动着，da4ma4这场延误事故，因为每耽误一分钟都在消耗他的钱财。	He was walking to and fro swearing at the delay which was costing him so much money every minute.
撕扯	德位的手指si1che3着绳子和包装纸。然后是一声狂嘉的尖叫，哎呀！紧接着又变为满脸的泪水。	Della's fingers tore at the string and paper. Then came an excited scream of joy, and then, alas! a quick change to tears.
搅动	jiao3dong4混合物而使粉末溶化.	Agitate the mixture to dissolve the powder.
蒙骗	我的乔装确实meng1pian4了他！	My disguise really took him in!
字里行间	从她那封信的zi4li3-hang2jian1我得知, 她把他赶了出去。	Reading between the lines of her letter, I learned she had driven him out.
优胜	毫无疑问她是you1sheng4者。	She was the outright winner.
不和	这次争吵是两家bu4he2引起的。	The quarrel originated in rivalry between the two families.
海神	普罗特斯一个能任意改变自己外形的hai3shen2	A sea god who could change his shape at will.
耕种	这些可怜的佃户在那个庄园里geng1zhong4。	The poor tenants farmed in that manor.
采石场	cai3shi2chang3通过挖掘、切割或爆破岩石来获取石料的露天坑道或洞	An open excavation or pit from which stone is obtained by digging, cutting, or blasting.
短处	每人都有自己的长处和duan3chu4。	Everyone has his own strong and weak points.
背井离乡	她叔叔bei4jing3-li2xiang1十年後返回英国.	After an exile of ten years her uncle returned to Britain.
穷苦	我们必须为qiong2ku3人提供适当的住房.	We must provide decent housing for the poor.
症结	裁减军备协议难以达成, zheng1jie2在於如何证实（如检查武器确已销毁）.	Verification (eg Checking that weapons have been removed) could be an obstacle to an arms agreement.
散会	想去毛毛雨里san4hui4儿步吗？	Would you like to go for a walk in the drizzle?
酒厂	我们本地的酿jiu3chang3与另一个公司合并了.	Our local brewery has amalgamated with another firm.
可谓	他那副样子ke3wei4是苦难的典型。	He looked the personification of misery.
圣诞卡	圣诞节是朋友家人互相再见，以及寄sheng4dan4ka3给住在远方的人的一段时间。	Christmas is a time for friends and family members to see each other again and to send Christmas cards to those who live far away.
校准	微调装置精密仪器上被设计用以增进精密jiao4zhun3或测量的一个辅助装置	An auxiliary device designed to facilitate fine adjustments or measurements on precision instruments.
盐酸	yan2suan1氟胺安定商标名，用于为失眠而指定的安眠药	A trademark used for a hypnotic drug prescribed for insomnia.
哺乳动物	鲸鱼和马一样都是bu3ru3 dong4wu4。	A whale is no less a mammal than a horse is.
图谋	有些尚未查明的势力正在活动tu2mou2推翻政府.	Unknownforces were at work to overthrow the government.
把头	她ba3tou2紧靠在我的肩膀上。	She burrowed her head into my shoulder.
螺旋桨	翼剖面；机翼；翼面一个部件或平面，如机翼、luo2xuan2jiang3叶、方向舵等，其形状或方位控制稳定性、方向、抬升、冲击或驱动	A part or surface, such as a wing, propeller blade, or rudder, whose shape and orientation control stability, direction, lift, thrust, or propulsion.
领空	空域；ling3kong1某一特定地区之上的空域，通常是政治划分区，如国家的ling3kong1	The portion of the atmosphere above a particular land area, especially that of a political subdivision such as a nation.
国际象棋	下星期，他将要参加一场guo2ji4 xiang4qi2比赛。	He will take part in a chess tournament next week.
捣毁	这个淘气的男孩因为dao3hui3了蜂房而被蜜蜂追赶。	The naughty boy was chased by the bees because he destroyed the honeycomb.
卷曲	她的头发自然juan3qu1。	She has a natural wave in her hair.
外资	因为wai4zi1的引进, 该地区会发生很大变化。	Great changes are in prospect in this area due to foreign investment.
远近	眼睛能自动调节以便观看yuan3jin4不同的景物。	The eye can accommodate itself to seeing objects at different distances.
琴弦	竖琴一种有一个通常系有四十六根长短不一的qin2xian2的直立的开放三角架、弹奏时用手指拨动qin2xian2的乐器	An instrument consisting of an upright, open triangular frame with usually46 strings of graded lengths played by plucking with the fingers.
聚众	足球队输球后球迷们在街上ju4zhong4闹事。	The football supporters ran riot through the town after the defeat of their team.
百无聊赖	他自从失业以来, 常觉bai3 wu2 liao2lai4.	Since losing his job, he has often experienced a profound sense of ennui.
滑坡	华尔街金融hua2po1引起世界股票市场的连锁反应。	The slump on Wall Street set up a chain reaction in stock markets around the world.
蟹肉	xie4rou4三明治；豆腐三明治	A crab burger, a tofu burger.
零售商	ling2shou4shang1须承受耗损的费用.	The retailer has to absorb the cost of wastage.
政见	进步党人的zheng4jian4进步党人的原则和作法	The principles and practices of political progressives.
对等	寓言，讽喻一种文学、戏剧或绘画的艺术手法，其中人物和事件代表抽象的观点、原则或支配力，从而使表面含义含有或表达一种dui4deng3的，但更深刻的象征意义	A literary, dramatic, or pictorial device in which characters and events stand for abstract ideas, principles, or forces, so that the literal sense has or suggests a parallel, deeper symbolic sense.
居民区	花园城市设计能提供具有低密度建筑和开阔公共土地的宜人环境的ju1min2qu1或居住地	A residential suburb or community planned so as to provide a pleasant environment with low-density housing and open public land.
读报	我经常du2bao4来尽量了解时事.	I try to keep in touch with current events by reading the newspapers.
检点	我们责备他行为不jian3dian3。	We condemned him for his bad conduct.
字型	Zzi4xing2线条在方向交替中，通过急转来继续的线或路线	A line or course that proceeds by sharp turns in alternating directions.
散热器	狗倚著暖烘烘的san4re4qi4.	The dog nestled up against the warm radiator.
晒干	有些地方仍使用在太阳下shai4gan1砖块的方法。	In some places, bricks are still baked in the sun.
逼人	可以bi1ren2服从, 却无法bi1ren2生爱.	You can compel obedience, but not affection.
炎炎	有个年幼的学生在yan2yan2烈日下晕倒了。	A young student fainted in the hot sun.
松动	她把盖子轻拍了几下使它song1dong4.	She gave the lid a few gentle taps to loosen it.
懒腰	我起床后舒服地伸了个lan3yao1。	I got out of the bed and had a good stretch.
多方	我一直在（duo1fang1）打听这件事.	I've been making (some) inquiries (ie trying to find out) about it.
航运	浮冰对这一带的hang2yun4是一种威胁.	Ice-floes are a threat to shipping in the area.
塞子	拔掉sai1zi5, 把水放掉.	Pull (out) the plug and let the water drain away.
行骗	那个流氓靠xing2pian4为生。	The rascal lives on the credulity of the people.
弄错	那个聚会落得一场空, 因为请帖上的日期nong4cuo4了.	The party was a total fiasco because the wrong date was given on the invitations.
羞怯	她在公开场合讲话会xiu1qie4。	She is bashful about speaking in public.
绝缘	覆面固定到一座建筑物或其它结构上的保护层或jue2yuan2层	A protective or insulating layer fixed to the outside of a building or another structure.
痛骂	老板因我不能找出差错而tong4ma4了我一顿。	The boss rapped me on knuckles for failing to spot the mistake.
大专	现在有一百多家美国da4zhuan1院校和几乎同样多的中国da4zhuan1院校建立了教育上的交流关系。	More than one hundred American colleges and universities now have educational exchanges with nearly as many Chinese institutions.
老一辈	lao3yi1bei4的各类人都在那里.	Many representatives of the older generation were there.
索引	为了使它更实用，这本书在下一版本中将编有suo3yin3。	The book will be indexed in the next edition so as to make it more useful.
颤音	chan4yin1两个相距一个音或半个音的音的迅速交替	The rapid alternation of two tones either a whole or a half tone apart.
排卵	妇女pai2luan3期不正常就不易受孕.	Women who do not ovulate regularly have difficulty in becoming pregnant.
撤军	莫斯科电视为che4jun1做了广泛的报导，一则苏联电视报导说车队曾受攻击，但是并未提供细节。	Moscow television carried extensive coverage of the pullout. A Soviet television correspondence said the convoy had come under fire but did not provide details.
贵国	gui4guo2是什么时候实行普选权的？	When was universal suffrage introduced in your country?
游击	内场，内野第一垒、第二垒、第三垒和被视为一个单位的you2ji1手的防守位置	The defensive positions of first base, second base, third base, and shortstop considered as a unit.
在编	船上定员行驶船舶所要求配备的全体官员和zai4bian1士兵	The full crew of officers and enlisted personnel required to run a ship.
就范	他们用武力逼他jiu4fan4.	They used force to persuade him.
球形	瓜形甜点一种用两层或多层各种风味的冰淇淋做成的qiu2xing2或瓜形的甜点	A dessert consisting of two or more layers of variously flavored ice cream frozen in a round or melon-shaped mold.
报数	副排长叫士兵们从右首开始bao4shu4。	The platoon sergeant numbered his men off from the right.
矿山	次要kuang4shan1甬道矿井中连接两条大隧道的小巷道	A secondary mine passageway between two main shafts or tunnels.
高声	群众gao1sheng1喊叫把演讲人的声音压了下去。	The crowd shouted the speaker down.
相配	这顶帽子和鞋子完全xiang1pei4。	The hat and shoes are a perfect match.
毛骨悚然	我亲眼看见暗杀的情景，真令我mao2gu3song3ran2。	I saw the assassination and it got under my skin.
系上	他ji4shang5宝剑.	He girded on his sword.
拉环	拉链由平行的金属、塑料或尼龙的齿状物制成的，在开口临近边缘上被滑动的la1huan2锁住的紧扣物	A fastening device consisting of parallel rows of metal, plastic, or nylon teeth on adjacent edges of an opening that are interlocked by a sliding tab.
炸死	在爆炸中有两个士兵和一个平民被zha4si3.	Two soldiers and one civilian were killed in the explosion.
生产力	工人们正竭尽全力提高sheng1chan3li4。	The workers are trying their best to increase productivity.
现存	此诗xian4cun2最早的原稿收藏在这座博物馆里。	The earliest extant manuscript of this poem has been kept in the museum.
时来运转	她似乎shi2lai2-yun4zhuan3了。	Her luck seems to have taken an upturn.
丝绒	这摸起来像si1rong2。	It feels like velvet.
水城	中立船证由联盟的外国政府颁发给船只的一种官方文件，尤指战时授权中立商船在特定shui3cheng2内自由进出和航行的文件	An official document issued by an allied foreign government to a ship, especially a neutral merchant ship in time of war, authorizing it to enter and travel through certain waters freely.
耸肩	她耸了song3jian1就离开了。	She gave a shrug and walked away.
简便	我想我找到了jian3bian4方法，给钱而不是花时间。	I think I'll take the easy way out and give money instead of time.
闲扯	他那无聊的xian2che3会使你烦恼。	His silly chatter would vex you.
默许	mo4xu3的以无反应或不行动作为回应而接受或服从于某一行动的	Receiving or subjected to an action without responding or initiating an action in return.
抄写	那个chao1xie3员辛勤工作来养家。	The scribe worked hard to support his family.
可望	我们正著手生产一种新的款式，ke3wang4在秋季面世。	Our new model is already on the stocks and will be available in the autumn.
电能	无轨电车的dian4neng2是通过架空线供给的。	The trolley bus picks up current from an overhead wire.
寒舍	火灾过後, han2she4所剩无几.	After the fire, very little remained of my house.
合资	他们就建立he2zi1公司的事和我们签了合约。	They covenanted with us for establishing a joint venture.
椰菜	蔬菜因其可食部分而种植的植物，如甜菜根、菠菜叶或者ye1cai4、花ye1cai4的花蕾等	A plant cultivated for an edible part, such as the root of the beet, the leaf of spinach, or the flower buds of broccoli or cauliflower.
冲入	他chong1ru4战场中。	He rushed into the fray.
石灰	我们可以通过烧shi2hui1石来得到shi2hui1。	We may burn limestone to obtain lime.
富饶	中国人民正在努力工作，把国家建设得更加fu4rao2美丽。	Chinese people are working hard to make the country richer and more beautiful.
一世	查理yi1shi4统治英国11年。	Charles ruled England for 11 years.
折合	二十市斤zhe2he2十公斤。	20 jin goes to 10 kilograms.
地标	参谋人员在地图上把这个地区精确di4biao1了出来。	The staff officers mapped out the area thoroughly.
欢送	她在飞机场受到了热情的huan1song4.	She was given a good send-off at the airport.
排版	齐平地使其均匀、在一个平面上或留边pai2ban3	So as to be even, in one plane, or aligned with a margin.
听来	照我这外行人ting1lai2, 你的嗓音差不多够专业水平了.	To my untutored ear, your voice sounds almost professional.
整数	调波一种频率是另一种波频率zheng3shu4倍的谐波	A wave whose frequency is a whole-number multiple of that of another.
误点	火车wu4dian3，使你无法赴宴会了。	The train kept you from going to the party.
荒原	北方的大huang1yuan2地广人稀。	The wasteland of the north is scarcely populated.
原木	他们把yuan2mu4锯成一块块厚板。	They are sawing a log into planks.
私营	把国家公园si1ying2化? 他们绝对不敢, 对吗?	Privatize the national parks? They'd never dare, would they?
抛售	股票市场上人心惶惶, 掀起pao1shou4浪潮.	Panic on the stock market set off a wave of selling.
环形	在huan2xing2防线上已布置了几处岗哨.	Guards had been posted at several points around the perimeter.
玉米粉	他们把麦麸和yu4mi5fen3混合起来喂猪。	They mix the bran and corn powder together to feed the pigs.
困倦	他很kun4juan4，上课时候都睡着了。	He was so sleepy that he fell asleep during the class.
省钱	我在sheng3qian2买一台电冰箱。	I'm saving up for a refrigerator.
闸	这辆自行车没zha2--你要骑可太危险了.	The bicycle has no brakes you ride it at your peril.
砷	分析显示溶液中有几格令的shen1.	The analysis showed a few grains of arsenic in the solution.
刨	他已把木板pao2平。	He has planed the plank smooth.
大体上	计算机性能和价格关系的法则，即性能与价格的平方da4ti3shang4相等。	A theory that the power of a computer is equivalent roughly to its cost squared.
异端	他就早期新教徒的yi4duan1邪说作了演讲。	He gave a speech on the heresies of the early Protestants.
敦促	主席dun1cu4党的工作人员采取行动。	The chairman exhorted the party workers to take action.
扫黄	sao3huang2对被认为不道德或淫秽的文学作品或其它表现或传播此内容的形式进行查禁	Censorship of literature and other forms of expression and communication because of perceived immorality or obscenity.
野兔	他们决定明天去田野里打ye3tu4。	They decide to go potting at rabbits in the field tomorrow.
反动	fan3dong4统治者发现要征服那些被压迫的当地人是很困难的。	The reactionary rulers found it very difficult to bring the oppressed natives under.
自愧不如	他那么聪明，让我zi4kui4-bu4ru2。	He's so clever, he makes me feel inferior.
衰败	到这时，罗马帝国已日益shuai1bai4。	By now the power of the Roman Empire was on the wane.
大幅度	列车车次已da4fu2du4减少.	Train services have been cut to the bone.
动力学	生物dong4li4xue2有机物栽培和作物培养的一种方法，需要考虑如行星作用和季节轮换等因素	A method of organic gardening and crop cultivation in which certain factors, such as planetary and seasonal cycles, are considered.
搂住	｀别发愁了,＇她边说边用手臂lou3zhu4他的肩膀.	Don't worry,' she said, putting an arm round his shoulder.
喷出	机车pen1chu1一股蒸气後就停了下来.	There was a puff of steam from the engine before it stopped.
安全帽	到工地的所有参观者必须带上an1quan2mao4。	All visitors to the site must wear safety helmet.
漏气	夜里在乡村小路上，他的车子两个轮胎lou4qi4了，又没有备用轮胎，他肯定难办死了。	He had two flat tires and no spare on a country road, which was certainly a pretty kettle of fish.
网球场	他总吹嘘自己在wang3qiu2chang3上的杰出技术，可是帕姆毫不费力地连续数局败他，使他马上威风扫地。	He was boasting as usual about his prowess on the tennis court, but Pam soon cut him down to size by beating him effortlessly in straight sets.
隐隐约约	他yin3yin3yue1yue1地觉得以前曾经见过她.	At the back of his mind was the vague idea that he had met her before.
广播剧	guang3bo1ju4中那场战斗的音响效果很好.	The sound effects of the fight were very good in that radio play.
读音	你应该查字典找出这个单词的正确du2yin1。	You should look up the right pronunciation of this word in the dictionary.
全票	劳驾, 买去市中心的两张quan2piao4和两张半票.	Two and two halves to the city centre, please.
换算	这是加仑与升的huan4suan4公式。	It's the formula for converting gallons into liters.
可亲	我父亲小酌之後，就变得开朗ke3qin1些，话也说得多了。	My father expanded a little when he have have a drink, and start to talk more freely.
农田	荒芜或边远的nong2tian2	Barren or marginal farmland.
独立自主	du2li4-zi4zhu3的意识及判断上独立的；自我指引的	Independent in mind or judgment; self-directed.
共产党员	Gong4chan3dang3yuan2是无神论者。	The communist is atheist.
班次	公共汽车日夜都有ban1ci4。	The bus service runs day and night.
提价	政府对每包香烟额外ti2jia4十便士.	The Government has clapped an extra ten pence on a packet of cigarettes.
抗击	全民kang4ji1侵略者.	The whole country resisted the invaders.
沿路	yan2lu4前行直至有交通灯处.	Go down the road till you reach the traffic lights.
滑倒	几个行人在结冰的人行道上hua2dao3了.	Several pedestrians had come to grief on the icy pavement.
不厌	我相信那成群女人们的服装颜色一定是一种华丽的奇观，我会百看bu4yan4的。	I am certain that the colors of women's dresses moving in a throng must be a gorgeous spectacle of which I should never tire.
哼唱	她一遍又一遍地不断heng1chang4那支歌。	She continued to hum the song over and over.
以身作则	那位父亲不能yi3 shen1 zuo4 ze2，更不用说做孩子的榜样了。	That father can't discipline himself, much less set a good example for his children to follow.
扬言	他们yang2yan2要一下子取消整个项目.	They threatened to cancel the whole project at a stroke.
引路	倘若没有指南针, 可利用星辰yin3lu4.	If you haven't a compass, use the stars to guide you.
认字	角帖书一种早期初级读物，即为一张盖有透明角片作为保护的书页，以前供儿童ren4zi4用	An early primer consisting of a single page protected by a transparent sheet of horn, formerly used in teaching children to read.
树根	他被一株shu4gen1绊倒了。	He tripped on a tree root.
薪金	xin1jin1是我收入的主要来源。	My wages are the principal source of my income.
电机	我们的全部dian4ji1都包换1年；如出现机械故障，任何有故障的零部件均由制造厂无偿更换。	All our electric motors are guaranteed for one year; in the event of mechanical failure, the makers will replace any faulty part free.
锻造	金属板duan4zao4、轧制，或铸造而成的金属板	A sheet of hammered, rolled, or cast metal.
浪漫主义	有些诗人，如济慈和雪莱，写的是lang4man4zhu3yi4的诗歌。	Such poets as Keats and Shelley wrote Romantic poetry.
耸立	池塘四周song3li4着一圈树木。	A fringe of trees stood round the pool.
原生	yuan2sheng1的出现于某一发展或进化早期阶段的或具有其特征的	Occurring in or characteristic of an early stage of development or evolution.
反之亦然	我们应该考虑父母的建议, fan3zhi1yi4ran2。	We should take into account the proposals of our parents and vice versa.
囊括	俄罗斯运动员nang2kuo4体操项目奖牌.	The Russians made a clean sweep of (the medals in) the gymnastics events.
韵	这首诗的最后两行没有押好yun4。	The last two lines of this poem don't rhyme properly.
自动化	这个暖气系统有zi4dong4hua4的温度调节系统。	This heating system has an automatic temperature control.
编成	她把头发bian1cheng2辫子。	She wore her hair in plaits.
易懂	这本书简单yi4dong3，适合儿童。	The simplicity of the book makes it suitable for children.
哈姆雷特	那个年轻演员扮演ha1 mu3 lei2 te4。	The young actor pretended to be Hamlet.
化学家	那个著名的hua4xue2jia1赢得了诺贝尔奖。	The famous chemist won the Nobel Prize.
改邪归正	他希望gai3xie2-gui1zheng4，过体面的生活。	He wishes to straighten up and lead a respectable life.
肺结核	成洞身体组织或器官内空洞的形成，尤指那种因fei4jie2he2而在肺中形成的空洞	The formation of cavities in a body tissue or an organ, especially those formed in the lung as a result of tuberculosis.
把守	通往宫殿的所有道路都有部队ba3shou3。	All the approaches to the palace are guarded by troops.
战犯	这个老zhan4fan4终于被人从他在国外的藏匿处查获。	The old war criminal is at last smoked out from his hiding place abroad.
急转弯	道路有个ji2zhuan3wan1拐向右边。	The road curved sharply to the right.
甜菜	糖大多是用甘蔗和tian2cai4制的。	Most sugar comes from sugar-cane and sugar-beet.
俯冲	飞机猛然fu3chong1致使驾驶员昏厥。	The plane dive suddenly, cause the pilot to black out.
分会	他说他的工会——运输工会504fen1hui4——历年来在合约上做了“极大的让步”以协助泛美［航空公司］纾解财务困难。“结果全然没用，”他哀伤地说。	He said his union, Local504 of the Transport Workers Union, made""massive contract givebacks"" over the years to help Pan Am with its financial troubles.""It was all to no avail, "" he lamented.
厂房	工厂一个chang3fang2或一组chang3fang2，装有用来制造的机器；工厂	A building or collection of buildings that has machinery for manufacture; a factory.
雷声	远处lei2sheng1隆隆。	The thunder rumbled in the distance.
紧接	新住宅区jin3jie1高速公路.	The new housing estate borders on the motorway.
挑三拣四	她总是tiao1san1-jian3si4的。	She always picked and chose.
糟透	她以内行的眼光看, 这幅画zao1tou4了.	To her expert eye, the painting was terrible.
入党	他去年ru4dang3了。	He was admitted to the Party last year.
在外	各党形成联盟时, 共产党人被排斥zai4wai4.	When the coalition was formed, the Communists were left out in the cold.
男孩儿	nan2hai2r5们恨不得马上就出发.	The boys were champing to start.
跪拜	他们gui4bai4诸神。	They knelt in adoration of their gods.
大赦	造反的人经da4she4释放回家.	The rebels returned home under a general amnesty.
笔画	这是他的亲bi3hua4。	This is a picture of his own painting.
瓜分	领土被侵占者gua1fen1.	The territory was carved up by the occupying powers.
近似	水平巷道穿过矿脉或与矿脉平行的矿井中水平或jin4si4水平的巷道	A horizontal or nearly horizontal passageway in a mine running through or parallel to a vein.
风化	侵蚀，feng1hua4，风蚀受日晒雨淋的岩石发生特征的变化甚至崩溃的过程中的任何一化学或物理变化	Any of the chemical or mechanical processes by which rocks exposed to the weather undergo changes in character and break down.
鬼神	人们对于虚构的地狱中的gui3shen2仍具有一种普遍的恐惧。	People still have a general fear for the imaginary infernal powers.
麝香	she4xiang1是一种有强烈气味的物质。	Musk is a kind of strong-smelling substance.
立体声	我倒是想要一套新的li4ti3sheng1音响器材, 可是没这笔钱（买）.	I'd like a new stereo, but I haven't got the wherewithal (to buy it).
伫立	那栋旧房子荒凉空洞地zhu4li4着，像一堆废墟。	The old house stood gaunt and empty, a complete ruin.
北半球	在bei3ban4qiu2，春季是三月和四月。	In the northern hemisphere, spring is in March and April.
哨兵	shao4bing1们都已各就各位.	The sentries are all at their posts.
赞颂	诗人们zan4song4国王，歌颂他的英勇业绩。	Poets sang the king's praises; they sang of his brave deeds.
暴发	雪融化时, 山间溪流变成山洪bao4fa1.	When the snow melts, the mountain stream becomes a deluge.
巨变	他对资本的精明投放已使他的生活发生ju4bian4。	His wise investment of his capital have bring about a great change in his life.
异口同声	老师们yi4kou3-tong2sheng1地称赞他。	The teachers praised him with one accord.
纯白	他有个主意，以chun2bai2为背景给他们拍摄。	He had the idea of shooting them against a complete plain white background.
隔断	这个村子周围有湖泊与沼泽地, ge2duan4了与外界的联系.	The village is shut off from the world by lakes and marshes.
霜冻	今晚大概会有shuang1dong4，一定要把花草都遮盖好。	It may freeze tonight, so make sure the plant should be covered.
会话	他自从参加了hui4hua4班，法语取得了很大进步。	His French has come on a lot since he joined the conversation class.
前言	作者在qian2yan2中阐明了他写这本书的原因。	In his preface the author set forth his reasons for writing the book.
方格	先用尺在纸上划出fang1ge2，这样你就能把图精确地摹绘下来了。	Square the page off with your ruler, then you'll be able to copy the drawing accurately.
限期	提案规定了一年的xian4qi1。	The proposal set a time limit of one year.
红十字	因为有钱又慷慨，他捐了两百万圆给Hong2shi2zi4会。	Rich and generous, he contributed two million dollars to the Red Cross.
摘录	以下是他在华府所发表的那篇著名的演讲中的一些zhai1lu4。	What follows is some excerpts of the famous speech he delivered in Washington D.C.
倦	听到新生儿的哭叫声，juan4极了的母亲笑了。	The exhausted mother smiled at the wail of her newborn baby.
无依无靠	一群武装盗贼袭击了wu2yi1-wu2kao4的旅客。	Armed thieves descended on the helpless travelers.
理事	li3shi4们花了大半个钟头反复认真讨论了这个问题。	The trustees spent the best part of an hour chewing the matter over.
咸肉	瘦肉上可加xian2rou4片烤制以保持水分。	Lean meat can be larded to keep it moist in the oven.
陌	乡村的田野里阡mo4纵横。	The paths crisscrossed in the fields in the countryside.
实例	这座教堂是中世纪建筑风格的典型shi2li4。	This church is a classic example of medieval architecture.
草拟	他用两小时左右的时间草cao3ni3出了故事的大纲。	He batted out an outline of a story in about two hours.
万里	他不远wan4li3来中国度暑假。	He has come over to China for the summer.
直飞	我将为你预订zhi2fei1伦敦的航班。	I'll book you on a direct flight to London.
汗流浃背	他han4liu2-jia1bei4.	He was sweating at every pore.
缝纫机	你应该给feng2ren4ji1上点油，以免发出轧轧声。	You should oil the sewing machine to stop the squeaking.
发迹	那时，这老头儿只不过是个泥瓦工罢了。他之所以fa1ji4，我认为靠的是精明的而不是业绩。	In his time, the old gentleman was a working mason, and had risen form the ranks more, I think, by shrewdness than by merit.
装订	zhuang1ding4术，业zhuang1ding4书本的技艺、行业或职业	The art, trade, or profession of binding books.
水位	水闸用门关住的水道的一部分，如运河。其中通过升高或降低这部分的shui3wei4可以抬升或压低运输中的船只	A section of a waterway, such as a canal, closed off with gates, in which vessels in transit are raised or lowered by raising or lowering the water level of that section.
刀叉	最上面的抽屉是放dao1-cha1的。	The top drawer is the one with the cutlery in.
拱门	穿过gong3men2, 沿著那条路走.	Go through the arch and follow the path.
胜似	【谚】把握一个今天，sheng4si4两个明天。	One today is worth two tomorrow.
自告奋勇	那个战士zi4 gao4 fen4yong3去站岗。	The soldier volunteered for guard duty.
灼热	zhuo2re4的阳光炙烤着光秃秃的大地。	The fierce sun parched the bare earth.
康涅狄格	费尔菲尔德Kang1nie4di2ge2西南的一座城镇，跨长岛海峡，在布里奇波特西南。于1639年建立，主要是住宅区，有多样化的轻工业。人口53，418	A town of southwest Connecticut on Long Island Sound southwest of Bridgeport. Settled in1639, it is mainly residential and has varied light industries. Population, 53,418.
紧要关头	现在到了jin3yao4 guan1tou2。	We have come to the critical moment.
孤立无援	我们的战士在那个gu1li4-wu2yuan2的阵地上坚持了两个多钟点。	Our fighters held on in that isolated position for more that two hours.
赔钱	他哪里是在pei2qian2，他几乎无法计算其利润呢！	Far from losing money, he can hardly count his profits.
壁球	我每天打bi4qiu2，一个星期体重减轻了十磅。	I sweated off ten pounds in a week by playing squash every day.
工作站	计算机或某个gong1zuo4zhan4为获得线路控制权以进行数据传输的一种企图。参阅BID。	An attempt by the computer or by a station to gain control of a line in order to transmit data.
剔	她从指甲里ti1掉污垢.	She cleaned the dirt from her finger-nails.
无期徒刑	他已上诉请求将死刑减为wu2qi1 tu2xing2.	He appealed for (a) commutation of the death sentence to life imprisonment.
遥遥领先	有一个队已经yao2yao2 ling3xian1.	One team has already built up a commanding lead.
听候	（你）抵达旅馆後, 请ting1hou4进一步指示.	On (your) arrival at the hotel please wait for further instructions.
果树	原先那片荒山如今已是guo3shu4成荫。	The barren hills are crowned with fruit trees.
传导	搬运器一种用以传送或chuan2dao3物品的机械或装置	A mechanism or device by which something is conveyed or conducted.
土人	这里的白种人不与tu3ren2交往.	The white people here don't mix socially with the natives.
任人	自从她选美获胜後，她就像活在金鱼缸中，ren4ren2参观，毫无隐私。	She has been living in a goldfish bowl since she won the beauty contest.
露珠	草上沾满了lu4zhu1.	The grass was sprinkled with dew.
减小	减少元件和电路的几何尺寸，以达到增加电路的封装密度、减少功耗和jian3xiao3信号传播延迟的目的。	The reduction in size of components and circuits for increasing package density and reducing power dissipation and signal propagation delays.
船队	军舰将护送chuan2dui4.	Warships will accompany the convoy.
足下	承蒙zu2xia4推荐, 我已获得这份工作.	I got the job on the strength of your recommendation.
谎称	她用欺骗手法取得了理科教员的职位，她huang3cheng1曾在大学读过书。	She got the job of science teacher by fraudulent means; she pretended she'd studied at university.
掉队	她由于极度疲劳而diao4dui4了。	She fell out from extreme fatigue.
互利	如果我们采取措施在hu4li4的基础上恢复业务关系，对我们都是有利的。	It will be advantageous if steps are taken to resume our business relationship on the basis of mutual benefit.
讲价	千万不要照牌价购买汽车, 总得讲jiang3jia4才是.	Never pay the advertised price for a car; always try to bargain.
稻田	dao4tian2一块专门灌溉的土地，水稻生长的地方	A specially irrigated or flooded field where rice is grown.
长方形	我把一个chang2fang1xing2的盒子放在桌子上。	I put a rectangular box on the table.
鸿沟	贫富的hong2gou1始终存在。	There is always a vast chasm between rich and poor.
异物	她的手指肿胀是手指内有yi4wu4引起的。	The swelling on her finger was caused by a foreign body in it.
固件	紧gu4jian4能使一件东西牢牢固定在另一件东西的物件，如钩子	Something, such as a hook, used to attach one thing to another firmly.
效用	某些植物具有药物xiao4yong4.	Certain plants have medicinal (ie healing) properties.
电视塔	dian4shi4ta3明显地是我国最大的建筑。	The TV tower is by far the largest construction of our country.
岔路	我们来到了cha4lu4口，不能决定走哪一条cha4lu4。	We came to a fork in the road and could not decide which fork we should take.
懂行	投资是一项风险事业，就是那些dong3hang2的人有时也会栽跟头。	Investment is a hazardous business; even those who are in the swim sometimes come a cropper.
条文	法律的精神比它的具体tiao2wen2更重要。	The spirit of a law is more important than its word.
力学	我正在尽li4xue2英语。	I'm trying to learn English.
耳膜	er3mo2的振动帮助声音传送到大脑。	A vibrating membrane in the ear helps to convey sounds to the brain.
果皮	她用一把锋利的刀削去厚厚的guo3pi2.	She pared off the thick peel with a sharp knife.
日趋	分析这些政治形势时, 应考虑到东西方关系正ri4qu1紧张.	These political developments should be seen against a background of increasing East-West tension.
野鸭	芭芭内鸭系由ye3ya1与普通鸭杂交而成。	A barbary duck is a cross between a wild duck and an ordinary duck.
试用期	在她被接受为固定雇员之前经过了三个月的shi4yong4qi1。	He was taken on for a three-month trial period before being accepted as a permanent member of staff.
造船	油轮需求量下降使zao4chuan2业成千上万的工作职位受到威胁.	A fall in demand for oil tankers has put/placed thousands of jobs in the shipbuilding industry in jeopardy.
可行性	专家们对该计划的ke3xing2xing4意见不一。	Experts were divided on the feasibility of the project.
山口	shan1kou3，隘口两个山峰间的通路或者山脊上的裂口	A pass between two mountain peaks or a gap in a ridge.
劝阻	如果你想象我一样做一个新闻工作者，那我决不会quan4zu3你。来吧，快来吧！	If you're thinking of becoming a journalist like me, I'd be the last to discourage you. Come on in, the water's fine!
愚钝	讨厌的人yu2dun4的、无聊的或讨厌的人；害人精	An obtuse, boring, or bothersome person; a pest.
诉诸	这位顾客将为此恶劣服务su4zhu1法律。	The customer will go to law for the bad service.
低空	碳14原子氧化生成二氧化碳，向四周散去并与di1kong1的大气混合。	The carbon14 atoms oxidize to carbon dioxide which gets blown about and mixed up with lower atmosphere.
油布	这块you2bu4是用来铺桌子的。	The piece of oilcloth is used as a covering for a table.
主动脉	zhu3dong4mai4系统血管的主干道，将血液由心脏左侧输送到除肺部以外的所有肢体及器官的动脉里	The main trunk of the systemic arteries, carrying blood from the left side of the heart to the arteries of all limbs and organs except the lungs.
打成一片	一个干部必须联系群众，同群众da3cheng2 yi1 pian4。	A cadre must reach out to and be one with the masses.
长矛	标枪一种用于投掷距离的比赛的金属的或带金属尖端的chang2mao2，长约2。5米	A metal or metal-tipped spear, about 2.5 meters in length, used in contests of distance throwing.
背地里	尽管杰拉尔德主动提供全力支持，但我仍不由得感觉到他在bei4di4li5搞鬼。	Although Gerald offered his wholehearted support, I can't help feeling he's playing some deep game of his own.
亚瑟王	ya4 se4 wang2的传说代表骑士精神的顶峰.	The legends of King Arthur represent the apotheosis of chivalry.
求援	他不理会一切qiu2yuan2的呼吁。	He turned a deaf ear to all requests for help.
功绩	政府为他颁赠勋章，以表彰他的卓著gong1ji4。	The government recognized his outstanding service by give him a medal.
弗吉尼亚州	州议院议员马里兰州、Fu2ji2ni2ya4zhou1和西Fu2ji2ni2ya4zhou1三州国会议员中的众议院议员	A member of a House of Delegates, the lower house of the Maryland, Virginia, or West Virginia legislature.
人称	海明威常用第一ren2cheng1写作。	Hemingway often writes in the first person.
景物	眼睛能自动调节以便观看远近不同的jing3wu4。	The eye can accommodate itself to seeing objects at different distances.
邮筒	you2tong3为存放外寄信件而设的公用盒箱	A public container for deposit of outgoing mail.
润色	吴先生正在对他的汇报作最后的run4se4。	Mr.Wu was putting the finishing touches to his report.
市价	shi4jia4已见回升，仓促处理掉，不足为取。	Hurried disposal unadvisable market recovery envisage.
炮兵	一个上尉指挥一个连队或pao4bing1连。	A captain commands a company or battery.
鹅卵石	那条路是用e2luan3shi2铺成的。	The road was paved with cobblestones.
减税	总统上个星期否决了jian3shui4法案。	The president last week vetoed the tax cut.
相宜	军事干涉极不xiang1yi2.	Military intervention is highly undesirable.
臭骂	他对那把墨水倒翻在书上的孩子chou4ma4了一顿。	He swore at the boy who dropped ink on the book.
减低	大家正在进行一场jian3di1城市噪音的运动.	People are campaigning to abate the noise in our cities.
侍候	她喜欢仆人前呼後拥地shi4hou4她.	She loves to have servants dance attendance (up) on her.
螺纹	luo2wen2接口用于接合电气装置和引出盒的luo2wen2接口	A threaded electrical fitting to connect a fixture to an outlet box.
门框	我的头撞在低矮的men2kuang4上了.	I cracked my head on the low door-frame.
急用	遇有ji2yong4时，我们只好动用积蓄。	If it come to the push, we shall have to use our savings.
中和	昼盲（症）一种视觉缺陷，其特点是在明亮的光线zhong1he2在阴暗的光线里一样无法看清东西	A visual defect characterized by the inability to see as clearly in bright light as in dim light.
相左	理事会成员们意见xiang1zuo3，分成自由和保守两个阵营	The council members disagreed, falling into liberal and conservative camps.
胶质	流胶现象，流胶病某些植物上，如甘蔗及一些果树，形成jiao1zhi4斑块的病理现象，由病虫害、微生物或恶劣的气候条件侵袭而引起	The pathological formation of patches of gum on certain plants, such as sugar cane and some fruit trees, resulting from attack by insects, microorganisms, or adverse weather conditions.
逗笑	那个喜剧演员讲的笑话把人们都dou4xiao4了。	The comedian tickled the crowd with his jokes.
精度	平面规，测平仪在精密金属加工中用于测定平面表面jing1du4的金属平板	A flat metal plate for gauging the accuracy of a plane surface in precision metalworking.
气力	机器使人们有可能用较小的qi4li4做较多的工作。	Machines make it possible that people do more work with less energy.
合奏	这主调接著由笛子he2zou4.	The melody is next taken up by the flutes.
永垂不朽	他的名声将yong3 chui2 bu4 xiu3。	His fame will endure forever.
强光	探照灯发出qiang2guang1, 照亮监狱场地.	The searchlights glared, illuminating the prison yard.
密密	mi4mi4的常春藤遮住了这面墙.	Rampant ivy had covered the wall.
相框	在桌上的银xiang4kuang4里有张她丈夫的照片。	In a silver frame on the table there is a photograph of her husband.
年中	全部款项可以在一nian2zhong1按月平均交纳.	Payments can be evened out on a monthly basis over the year.
造价	这家公司估计这栋新房的zao4jia4为8，000英镑。	The firm estimated the cost of the new house at￡8, 000.
印度教	甘地，穆罕达斯·卡拉姆昌德1869－1948印度民族主义者和精神领袖，推动了非暴力不抵抗运动并迫使英国于1947年允许印度独立，被一个Yin4du4jiao4狂热分子暗杀	Indian political leader who served as prime minister(1966-1977) and(1980-1984). She was assassinated by Sikh extremists.
算出	假设已知一个物体的重量和比重，我们就能suan4chu1它的体积。	Granted the weight and the specific gravity of a body, we can calculate its volume.
杨柳	格雷厄姆，肯尼思1859－1932英国作家，以其散文和儿童文学著名，著名的有yang2liu3风（1908年）	British writer known for his essays and children's books, notably The Wind in the Willows(1908).
使出	历史可以证明，德国人在1944年12月的反攻巴尔吉之战中shi3chu1了最后的力量，从那时起，他们的失败只不过是时间问题而已。	History may prove that in Dec.1944, the Germans shot their bolt at the Battle of the Bulge; after that, their defeat was just a matter of time.
改日	多谢邀请, 我们gai3ri4一定应邀.	Thanks for the invitation; we may take you up on it some time.
驻守	政府将派军zhu4shou3沿海的城镇。	The government will garrison the coastal towns.
截断	电力供应已在电源处jie2duan4.	The electricity supply has been cut off/disconnected at the mains.
自相矛盾	她觉察到他的论点有几处略微有些zi4 xiang1 mao2dun4.	She noticed several minor inconsistencies in his argument.
可憎	他是我认识的最ke3zeng1的人。	He is the most obnoxious man I know.
栖身	成群的歹徒犯法後qi1shen1於树林中.	Bands of outlaws lived in the forest.
裂口	山口，隘口两个山峰间的通路或者山脊上的lie4kou3	A pass between two mountain peaks or a gap in a ridge.
修缮	你可以得到一笔拨款来xiu1shan4住房。	You can get a grant to improve your house.
三级	她得到了一份新工作，这个月又连加san1ji2工资。她在上头一定有熟人。	She has had a new job and three increases in her wages this month. She must have friends in high places.
化学武器	政府已经禁止使用hua4xue2 wu3qi4。	The government has banned the use of chemical weapons.
罪责	那位船长被免除了因船只失事而遭致的非难和zui4ze2。	The captain is absolved from all blame and responsibility for the shipwreck.
讲演	布道一次讲道，尤其是旨在于实际问题上启发会众，而不在于成为神学jiang3yan3	A sermon, especially one intended to edify a congregation on a practical matter and not intended to be a theological discourse.
言谈	他的yan2tan2中流露著自满的口气.	There was a note of self-satisfaction in his speech.
选取	他xuan3qu3了最直的路线。	He has chosen the most direct route.
成群结队	夏季游人cheng2qun2-jie2dui4到博物馆和艺术馆参观。	In the summer, tourists flock to the museums and art galleries.
大难不死	空难事件中有些人da4nan4bu4si3被新闻界广泛报导。	The miraculous survival of some people in the air crash was widely reported by the press.
将士	小凯旋式古罗马欢迎jiang4shi4凯旋归来的仪式，隆重程度稍次于凯旋式	An ancient Roman victory ceremony of somewhat less importance than a triumph.
梗	geng3草各种草的硬花geng3	The stiff stalk of various grasses.
惶惶	股票市场上人心huang2huang2, 掀起抛售浪潮.	Panic on the stock market set off a wave of selling.
请进	招聘店员. qing3jin4面洽.	Shop assistant required. Apply within.
厂长	刘chang3zhang3主持会议，宣布开会。	Director Liu, in the chair, opened the meeting.
火冒三丈	他的评论把她气得huo3mao4-san1zhang4。	She was seething with rage at his remarks.
纵身	他zong4shen1一跃就跳过了墙。	With one bound, he was over the wall.
民选	在英国, 女王是君主而治理国家的却是min2xuan3的代表.	In Britain the Queen reigns, but elected representatives of the people govern the country.
拂晓	fu2xiao3时敌人向我防线开了火。	The enemy opened fire on our lines at early dawn.
特指	公路te4zhi3连结城市、县镇的公用道路	A main public road, especially one connecting towns and cities.
文体	她的wen2ti3极其清晰明白。	Her style is clear as crystal.
酬谢	公司发给她奖金以chou2xie4她工作努力。	The firm repaid her hard work with a bonus.
入乡随俗	告诉你的朋友们你一天吃不了三大餐。""""我可不想使他们不高兴，最好还是ru4xiang1-sui2su2-何况只有一周的时间。""	Just tell your friends you can't eat three enormous meals a day."" ""I wouldn't like to offend them. When in Rome, better do as the Romans do-especially as it's only for a week.""
张牙舞爪	老虎逃出了动物园, zhang1ya2-wu3zhao3乱窜了几小时.	The tiger escaped from the zoo and ran amok for hours.
括号	汇编程序设计中，用项和kuo4hao4对的组合所代表的一个或多个操作。	In assembler programming, one or more operation represented by a combination of terms and paired parentheses.
阿斯匹林	医生告诉他每天饭前吃两片a1si1pi3lin2。	The doctor told him to take two tablets of aspirin before every meal.
光秃秃	泥土被洪水冲走, 露出guang1tu1tu1的岩石.	The soil was washed away by the flood, exposing bare rock.
文火	把混合物煮至沸腾，然後再用wen2huo3煮十分钟。	Bring the mixture to the boil, then let it simmer for ten minutes.
香山	Xiang1 Shan1红叶是北京最浓最浓的秋色。	The red leaves of maple trees of the Fragrant Hills are the most charming autumn scenery in Beijing.
植被	葱翠的有或以茂盛zhi2bei4为特征的	Having or characterized by luxuriant vegetation.
诈骗罪	她被判犯有zha4pian4zui4.	She stood convicted of fraud.
连结	lian2jie2，连系有连系的系列或群体	A connected series or group.
社论	请萨姆写那篇she4lun4好了，他能胜任。	Get Sam to write that editorial. He haw what it takes.
从容不迫	她cong2rong2-bu4po4地讲话.	She spoke with unruffled calm.
伙食费	huo3shi2fei4另加。	Meals are extra.
铁锅	一片片的锈从旧tie3guo1上落下。	Flakes of rust are falling from the old iron pan.
势利眼	她极力反对别人说她shi4li5yan3.	She protested strongly at being called a snob.
本体	ben3ti3感受由身体本身的内部刺激引起的对于运动和空间定向的不自觉的感受	The unconscious perception of movement and spatial orientation arising from stimuli within the body itself.
有方	由于管理you3fang1，农场兴旺发达。	The farm prospered through good management.
花环	桂冠用月桂编成的hua1huan2，古时作为一种荣誉的标志授予诗人、英雄和体育竞赛中的优胜者	A wreath of laurel conferred as a mark of honor in ancient times upon poets, heroes, and victors in athletic contests.
作物	农民们在地里收割（zuo4wu4）.	The farmers are out harvesting (the corn).
外墙	我们正在给房子的wai4qiang2涂漆。	We are painting the exterior wall of the house.
乱扔	他因在人行横道上luan4reng1杂物而被罚款。	He was fined for littering on the sidewalks.
偏执狂	pian1zhi2kuang2现象在妇女中很盛行，引起了许多婚姻纠纷。	Paranoia reigns supreme among the women, causing much marital conflict.
面带	从这个角度来看, 画中的女子mian4dai4微笑.	Seen from this angle the woman in the picture is smiling.
狄更斯	di2 geng1 si1是他最喜欢的作家、	Dickens is his favorite author.
火上浇油	采取残酷镇压的方式，他们只会huo3shang4-jiao1you2。	By brutally suppressing them, they simply poured oil on the flame.
锐	士兵们养精畜rui4，节约粮草，以期反击敌人的进攻。	The soldiers husband their strength and their food, waiting for the enemy to attack.
踝	他跳远时扭伤了左huai2。	He hurt his left ankle in the broad jump.
自有	＂对年青人的思想、感情和行动发生这样巨大的兴趣，zi4you3它的道理。＂	There are reasons for this great interest in the ideas, feelings, and actions of youth.""
步法	在为生存在斗争场里，才能就是重拳，机智就是巧妙的bu4fa3。	In the battle for existence, talent is the punch, and tact is the clever footwork.
电极	电晕在电晕放电中在高压dian4ji2出现的一种微弱光辉，常伴随有朝向低压dian4ji2的电流	A faint glow enveloping the high-field electrode in a corona discharge, often accompanied by streamers directed toward the low-field electrode.
分期付款	如果你不能用现金购房, 也可以fen1qi1 fu4kuan3。	If you can't pay for the house in cash, you can buy it on installment.
糕饼	她量出一定量的面粉、黄油和糖，开始拌做gao1bing3。	She measured out the flour, butter, and sugar and started to mix a cake.
总机	安装电话机与zong3ji1接通要多长时间?	How long will the connection of the telephone take? ie How long will it take to install a telephone and connect it to the exchange?
干冰	高压下gan1bing1会溶化。	At high pressure dry ice will melt.
修理厂	汽车xiu1li3chang3给我５英镑折价换取我的汽车旧电池，这使我比较容易接受得买一个新电池的事实。	The garage gave me five pounds for trading in my old car battery, which took the sting of having to buy a new one.
唉声叹气	连续几个小时她都在ai1sheng1-tan4qi4，希望能从她母亲那弄点钱。	By sighing away for hours, she hoped to get some money from her mother.
古玩	gu3wan2是一种非常保险的投资对象。	Antiques are a very safe investment.
哄骗	他用虚假的诺言hong3pian4了她。	He deluded her with empty promises.
穗	玉米不久就要结sui4了。	The corn will soon ear.
涂层	我要把原有的油漆全部铲去，并要涂上新的内tu2ceng2和上光剂。我要彻底地干一下，决不马马虎虎。	I want all the existing paint stripped off and new undercoat and gloss applied. I want a thorough job, with no half measures.
家谱	jia1pu3祖先录；家族树	A list of ancestors; a family tree.
演化	天文学外层空间事物的科学研究，尤指天体及天文现象的位置、大小、分布、运动、构成、能量及yan3hua4的科学	The scientific study of matter in outer space, especially the positions, dimensions, distribution, motion, composition, energy, and evolution of celestial bodies and phenomena.
一贫如洗	那寡妇和孩子们yi1 pin2 ru2 xi3.	The widow and children are very poorly off.
量化	行为科学主义心理学的一个流派，着重研究行为中可以观察到的、可以liang4hua4的方面，排除主观现象，如感情或动机	A school of psychology that confines itself to the study of observable and quantifiable aspects of behavior and excludes subjective phenomena, such as emotions or motives.
养殖	yang3zhi2对动物的饲养或植物的种植，尤指为了产生改良品种	The breeding of animals or growing of plants, especially to produce improved stock.
聪颖	她的cong1ying3是不言而喻的。	Her intelligence is self-evident.
伸长	简shen1chang2脖子张望，在人群中找她的母亲。	Jane craned her neck to look for her mother in the crowd.
津津乐道	他度假归来, 对假日情趣仍jin1jin1 le4 dao4.	He hasn't stopped enthusing about his holiday since he returned.
倾向于	我qing1xiang4 yu2同意你的观点。	I'm disposed to agree with you.
大难	一场da4nan4降临到他的头上.	A great misfortune befell him.
勤力	【谚】qin2li5佳运之母。	Diligence is the mother of good luck.
左派	选民转而支持zuo3pai4.	Voters have/Voting has swung to the left.
木料	这个没有皮的mu4liao4得用砂纸磨光.	The bare wood must be sanded down.
引得	她那滑稽的服装yin3de2客人哄堂大笑。	Her funny costume caused much mirthful laughter among the guests.
绞痛	肠jiao3tong4肠内痉挛性剧痛	Sharp, spasmodic pains in the bowels.
水路	我老喜欢在礼拜天起程旅行，因为无论走shui3lu4也好，走陆路也好，教堂里的祈祷将会保佑我的整个旅程。	I always like to begin a journey on Sunday because I shall have the prayers of the church to preserve all that travel by land or by water.
博物院	不论何时我到台北，我一定去参观故宫bo2wu4yuan4。	Whenever I go to Taipei, I make a point of visiting the National Palace Museum.
讲义	他的回答只不过是把我的jiang3yi4重复了一遍。	His answer is just a rehash version of my lecture.
牢靠	这幢楼房的屋顶不lao2kao4。	The roof of the building is unsound.
药材	人们认为它是最珍贵的yao4cai2之一。	It was reckoned among the most precious medicinal herbs.
砖块	煤砖，炭砖把煤灰，木炭或锯木灰和木片压缩制成的zhuan1kuai4状物，用作燃料和点火	A block of compressed coal dust, charcoal, or sawdust and wood chips, used for fuel and kindling.
桎梏	他所执教是一所规模很小的大学, 他想摆脱存在於其中的地方主义zhi4gu4.	He wanted to escape from the provincialism of the small university where he taught.
闹别扭	她正在nao4 bie4niu5呢。	She is just being difficult.
废气	汽车放出的fei4qi4在污染我们城市的空气。	Gases from cars are poisoning the air of our cities.
综合性	这门课程除了讲课外，还有zong1he2xing4的现场实习加以补充。	The lectures of this course are to be backed up by a comprehensive programme of field work.
跳进	青蛙tiao4jin4了沟里。	The frog jumped into the ditch.
退下	哈姆雷特从舞台左侧tui4xia4。	Hamlet goes off stage left.
堆砌	这个女孩从容地把砖dui1qi4起来	The girl stacked the blocks with deliberation.
远洋	yuan3yang2航路总是很繁忙.	The ocean lanes are always busy.
书页	shu1ye4因年久而变黄。	The leaves of the book had yellowed with age.
边防	我们的bian1fang2战士在敌人猛烈进攻下巍然不动。	Our frontier guards held up under fierce enemy attack.
悟性	他wu4xing4差, 没有意识到存在的危险.	He hadn't the wits/wit enough to realize the danger.
干线	公路gan4xian4遭水淹没，我们只得择乡间小径绕行。	The main road was flooded so we had to go round by narrow country lanes.
战区	回程用的时间比平时长, 因为飞机不能飞越zhan4qu1.	The journey back took longer than normal, because the plane could not overfly the war zone.
捕食	鹰bu3shi2小鸟。	Hawks prey on small birds.
垮台	公司在新人管理下就要kua3tai2了。	The firm is going to pot under the new management.
钻探	经数月zuan1tan4, 在沿海找到了石油.	After months of drilling, oil was found off the coast.
正如	zheng4ru2他所指出的那样，一切反动派都是纸老虎。	As he pointed out, all reactionaries are paper tiger.
捶	她用拳头猛chui2桌子.	She banged her fist on the table.
连队	一个上尉指挥一个lian2dui4或炮兵连。	A captain commands a company or battery.
引人入胜	他的作品中含有真正yin3 ren2 ru4 sheng4的东西。	His writing contains some real goodies.
独木舟	要是站起来, 能把du2mu4zhou1弄翻.	If you stand up you'll overbalance the canoe.
转换器	扩展器在某一给定范围的输入电压内产生较大输出电压的zhuan3huan4qi4	A transducer designed for a given range of input voltages that produces a larger range of output voltages.
议院	他在下yi4yuan4当众发表了一个声明。	He made a statement before the House of Commons.
鹿角	鹿有些种类能脱换lu4jiao3.	Some kinds of deer shed their horns.
光谱	红色和紫色位于guang1pu3相对的两端。	Red and violet are at opposite ends of the spectrum.
百分比	威士忌所含酒精的bai3fen1bi3很高.	Whisky contains a large percentage of alcohol.
补牙	牙科医生常常给患者bu3ya2.	A dentist often has to fill teeth.
课时	他因在上ke4shi2吸烟而被开除了。	He was expelled for smoking in class.
举家	我曾在这里住了一年，攒够了钱以后才ju3jia1迁居国外。	I had been living here for a year before I had saved enough money to bring the family out.
专心致志	他zhuan1xin1-zhi4zhi4地制订计划。	He was involved in working out a plan.
栽种	这些树是每隔20英尺zai1zhong4一棵的.	The trees were planted at 20 ft intervals.
宽心	安慰的话，kuan1xin1的话某些没有内在补救作用的东西，仅仅用来安慰他人	Something of no intrinsic remedial value that is used to appease or reassure another.
功用	变压器的gong1yong4就是把电力从一种电压改变为加一种电压。	The function of the transformers is to change electric power from one voltage to another.
小城	自从我上次离开这里以来，这xiao3cheng2已变得认不出来了。	The town has altered out of all recognition since I was last here.
金灿灿	啤酒瓶底的沉淀物一到瓶颈部位，就不要往外倒啤酒了。此时你的一杯啤酒会jin1can4can4地发亮，酒泡鼓出酒杯口，而又不会溢出杯外。	As soon as the sediment starts creeping up the shoulder of the bottle, stop pouring. You should now have a glass of star-bright beer with a head(of foam) that stands proud of the glass but does not overflow.
求知欲	学生应该始终具有强烈的qiu2zhi1yu4。	A student should always be curious to learn.
议事	咱们进行yi4shi4日程的下一个项目吧.	Let's pass on to the next item on the agenda.
分针	那根巨大的fen1zhen1不动了。我们等来等去，但一点儿动静也没有。	The big minute hand did not move. We waited and waited, but nothing happened.
和煦	太阳he2xu4地照耀着	The sun shone kindly.
所得税	他的收入有多少需纳suo3de2shui4?	What percentage of his income is taxable?
波纹	她把一块石头扔进池塘里，看著水的bo1wen2扩散开。	She throw a stone into the pond and watch the ripples spread.
嘶哑	老师以si1ya3的声音说话。	The teacher speaks with a husky voice.
无序	饮食失常一种饮食wu2xu4，在这种情况下，一个人常常处于不正常的贪食和厌食的交替状态，特点是偶尔的暴饮暴食继而又很快的引起呕吐或腹泻	An eating disorder in which one alternates between abnormal craving for and aversion to food. It is characterized by episodes of excessive food intake followed by periods of fasting and self-induced vomiting or diarrhea.
复婚	她与原来的丈夫离婚十年後又fu4hun1了.	She remarried her former husband ten years after their divorce.
变节	两极相通。最激烈的无政府主义者，居然成了最露骨的bian4jie2者。	Extremes meet. the most furious anarchist become the most barefaced apostate.
火车头	他的huo3che1tou2模型缺了一个零件.	He lost one of the pieces of his model engine.
不下	我盖不上[取bu4xia4]盖子.	I can't get the lid on/off.
藉口	别听他的种种jie4kou3，他在撒谎。	Don't listen to his pretences; he is lying.
抽泣	德拉就这样做了。你知道，人生是由呜咽，chou1qi4和徽笑组成的，而其中主要的是chou1qi4。	So Della did. You see, life You see, life is made up of sobs, sniffles, and smiles- but mainly of sniffles.
雪松	松树、 xue3song1、 云杉都是常绿的树.	The pine, cedar and spruce are evergreens.
中型	好。是要豪华型、zhong1xing2还是小型车？	Ok. Luxury, mid-size or compact?
杂乱无章	桌子上堆满了一堆堆za2luan4-wu2zhang1的文件。	There are piles of papers all over the desk with no semblance of order.
调用	在计算机安全学中，一种计算机程序，表面上或实际上有某种有用的功能，而含有附加的（隐藏的）可能利用了diao4yong4进程的合法特许来危害系统安全的功能。	In computer security, a computer program with an apparently or actually useful function that contains additional(hidden) functions that surreptitiously exploit the legitimate authorizations of the invoking process to the detriment of security.
不俗	我们的男主人远远看到有个外表bu4su2的绅士站在大厅的尽头。	Our host descried a gentleman of unusual appearance standing at the far end of the hall.
扑朔迷离	我无法找出迷宫中pu1shuo4-mi2li2的路线。	I was unable to find out the intricate windings of the labyrinth.
居住地	自从岛上蚊子被消灭后，那儿成了更加美好的ju1zhu4di4。	Since the mosquitoes were killed off, the island has become a far pleasanter place to live in.
反对派	这个计划的fan3dui4pai4全部屈服了。	All opposition to the plan has caved in.
断然	我的要求遭到了duan4ran2拒绝。	My request was met with a flat refusal.
要员	应召显贵法国革命前yao4yuan2议会的一员，在紧急时刻被召到大会进行商讨	One of a council of prominent persons in pre-Revolutionary France called into assembly to deliberate at times of emergency.
险阻	前面肯定有xian3zu3，你可以向前也可以后退，你将怎么办啊？	The danger is certainly a lion in the path; you can go ahead or turn back. Which will you do?
借款	我还了抵押jie4kuan3, 如释重负!	Paying my mortgage was an enormous weight off my mind!
自吹自擂	他是一个随和的人，但就是喜欢zi4chui1-zi4lei2。	He is an agreeable fellow, but likes to blow his own horn.
新近	他用图表和数字进一步阐明他xin1jin4的发现。	He amplified(on) his new findings with drawings and figures.
呜咽	她wu1ye4着叙述她自己悲哀的身世。	She sobbed out an account of her sad life.
电话机	他的眼光转向了dian4hua4ji1。	His eyes shifted to the telephone.
和平共处	我们的外交政策是和其它国家he2ping2 gong4chu3。	Our foreign policy is to coexist with other countries.
屠宰	大屠杀大规模杀戮，如战争中的大屠杀；tu2zai3	Massive slaughter, as in war; a massacre.
誓约	保证人一个人或一个公司，对与质量、耐用性或性能相关的方面提供担保、保证或shi4yue1	One, such as a person or corporation, that makes or gives a promise, assurance, or pledge typically relating to quality, durability, or performance.
发源地	人们认为海洋曾经是生命的fa1yuan2di4。	The sea is thought to have been the cradle of life.
万事通	他似乎是个wan4shi4tong1。其实他是再愚蠢不过了。	It seems as if he knew everything, but in reality, he is as stupid as can be.
有的是	别忙, you3de5shi4时间.	Don't hurry; there's plenty of time.
斯诺	假使《哈姆雷特》是今时写成的话，它可能会被称为《埃尔Si1nuo4城的怪事》。	If Hamlet had been written in these days it will probably have been called the strange affair at Elsinore.
保险单	他因bao3xian3dan1失效未得任何补偿.	He didn't get any compensation because his insurance policy had lapsed.
酬	【谚】无蜂则无密，不劳则无chou2。	No bees, no honey; no work, no money.
假使	jia3shi3一个人健康什麽事都能率得到。	Given good health, one can achieve anything.
赢利	这家公司一年以後才能ying2li4, 现在至少已不赔不赚了.	It will be a year before the firm makes a profit but at least it's breaking even.
词句	问题征求或要求回答的询问的ci2ju4	An expression of inquiry that invites or calls for a reply.
好久不见	hao3jiu3bu5jian4了。	Haven't seen you for ages.
划过	无数想法hua2guo4她的心头。	A myriad of thoughts passed through her mind.
群居	大多数蜜蜂和黄蜂都是qun2ju1昆虫。	Most bees and wasps are social insects.
煤油	桌子上有一盏mei2you2灯。	There was a kerosene lamp on the table.
溶剂	石脑油一种高度挥发性的易燃液态碳氢化合物混合物，从石油、煤焦油和天然气中提炼出来，并用作石油、rong2ji4和制造各种化合物中	Any of several highly volatile, flammable liquid mixtures of hydrocarbons distilled from petroleum, coal tar, and natural gas and used as fuel, as solvents, and in making various chemicals.
区长	牧师住宅管辖区通常由教会提供给牧师的正式寓所；教qu1zhang3的管辖区	The official residence usually provided by a church for its parson; a rectory.
蒸馏	水可以通过zheng1liu2而提纯。	Water can be made pure by distilling it.
绝迹	很多种类的动物现在已经从地球上jue2ji1了。	Many types of animals have now vanished from the earth.
宣传部	回信免费邮寄至牛津牛津大学出版社xuan1chuan2bu4.	Reply to Publicity Department, FREEPOST, Oxford University Press, Oxford.
同甘共苦	我可不愿和他tong2gan1-gong4ku3。	I would not want to share his lot.
流派	行为科学主义心理学的一个liu2pai4，着重研究行为中可以观察到的、可以量化的方面，排除主观现象，如感情或动机	A school of psychology that confines itself to the study of observable and quantifiable aspects of behavior and excludes subjective phenomena, such as emotions or motives.
政坛	他从政三十年之後，终於决定退出zheng4tan2。	After thirty years in politics, he is finally bowing out.
标的	里程碑，里程标路边所设立的石制标志，以英里指示从给定的一点到该路biao1di4距离	A stone marker set up on a roadside to indicate the distance in miles from a given point.
讨人喜欢	他有个不大tao3ren2xi3huan5的特点，就是爱当众责备妻子。	One of his less attractive traits is criticizing his wife in public.
良田	象中国一样，美国继承了幅员辽阔的国土，有一望无际的丛山峻岭，沃土liang2tian2和无边草原。	Like you, we inherited a vast land of endless skies, tall mountains, rich fields, and open prairies.
刑场	如果是女人，在她走向xing2chang3的半路上，也可能会要求一点时间来化妆。	If a woman were on her way to her execution, she will demand a little time to put on make- up.
熔点	渗碳处理一种冶金镀膜工序，在此工序中把钢或铁浸入另一种金属如锌、铬或铝的粉剂里，并加热至这一金属的rong2dian3温度以下	A metallurgical coating process in which iron or steel is immersed in a powder of another metal, such as zinc, chromium, or aluminum, and heated to a temperature below the melting point of either.
串联	chuan4lian2一系列部件或网络，其中每个部件的输出传递到下一个的输入	A series of components or networks, the output of each of which serves as the input for the next.
根除	他们力图gen1chu2罪恶。	They attempted to eradicate crime.
亚里士多德	范畴Ya4li3shi4duo1de2所描绘的可以放置所有事物的基本状态或分类之一；范畴	One of the basic states or classifications described by Aristotle into which all things can be placed; a category.
兴建	我们把钱用在xing1jian4灌溉工程上了.	We used the money to set up an irrigation project.
两难	敌人就在背后，而前面横跨在深谷之上的桥已经腐朽不堪，摇摇晃晃。他处在liang3nan2之中，犹豫了起来。	His enemy was close behind him, and the bridge over the ravine was rotten and swaying. Caught between the devil and the deep blue sea, he hesitated.
油墨	印刷you2mo4用光了。	The printing ink has been used up.
花岗岩	花岗伟晶岩一种有时富含铀、钨和钽等稀有元素的粗纹理hua1gang1yan2	A coarse-grained granite, sometimes rich in rare elements such as uranium, tungsten, and tantalum.
贫瘠	荒原荒凉、pin2ji2或遭到毁坏之土地	Land that is desolate, barren, or ravaged.
河口	船搁浅了--这he2kou3的水比我们想像的要浅.	The ship has touched bottom the estuary must be shallower than we thought.
忘乎所以	当时我有些wang4hu1-suo3yi3，疯狂地吻著他。	I'm afraid I forgot myself and kissed him wildly.
注解	有的人一面读书一面做zhu4jie3。	Some people annotate as they read.
脱轨	tuo1gui3器，转撤器通过在不同大小的扣链齿轮间移动链条而转换自行车齿轮（换档）的装置	A device for shifting gears on a bicycle by moving the chain between sprocket wheels of different sizes.
开夜车	他好几个晚上kai1 ye4che1学习。	He stayed up nights studying.
雄鹿	这只xiong2lu4体形健壮。	This hart has a strong figure.
凡尘	人间，俗世世间凡人凡物居住的地方；fan2chen2世界	The realm of mortal existence; the temporal world.
见报	该通告将於明日jian4bao4.	The announcement will appear in tomorrow'snewspapers.
核武	he2wu3装轰炸机在危机期间负责警戒	Nuclear-armed bombers were put on alert during the crisis.
外籍	我的wai4ji2教师来自澳大利亚。	My foreign teacher came from Australia.
外力	流体运动由重力等wai4li4引起的流体运动	Fluid motion caused by an external force such as gravity.
溪流	xi1liu2十分清澈。	The stream is very limpid.
湖畔	这个饭店坐落在优美的高山hu2pan4，四周洋溢着浪漫的气氛。	The hotel has a very romantic atmosphere, set on the bank of a beautiful mountain lake.
突起	尖端一个带尖或tu1qi3的物体的末端	The end of a pointed or projecting object.
急迫	紧迫的强求立即的行动和关注的；ji2po4的	Compelling immediate action or attention; pressing.
魁梧	这个kui2wu2的男人穿着同样的衣服，在他那馅饼盘大小的手里捧着另外一只小猫。	The huge man was wearing the same clothes and carrying another kitten in his pie plate hand.
后撤	几经失败之后，敌军被迫hou4che4。	After several reverses the enemy was forced to retreat.
体育运动	他是一个ti3yu4 yun4dong4爱好者。	He is a sports buff.
奴隶制	nu2li4zhi4在许多国家已经被废除。	The abolition of slavery had been exercised in many countries.
辩护人	受虐待儿童及配偶的bian4hu4ren2	Advocates for abused children and spouses.
烙	没有那种不粘锅底的铛就lao4不好饼.	It's very difficult to make pancakes without a ,non-stick frying-pan.
要不是	yao4bu5shi4报纸，我们都赶不上时代了。	Without newspaper, we would get behind the times.
僧	这个和尚穿着灰色的seng1袍。	This monk wears a gray frock.
手巾	他（用shou3jin5）轻轻把脸拍乾.	He patted his face dry (with a towel).
鱼叉	鲸鱼被yu2cha1射中後潜入水中.	The whale dived as the harpoon struck it.
隐私权	民事的，民法的关于个人yin3si1quan2及相关于这些权利的法律诉讼程序的，区别于刑事的、军事的或国际的条例或诉讼程序	Relating to the rights of private individuals and legal proceedings concerning these rights as distinguished from criminal, military, or international regulations or proceedings.
平衡木	小女孩失去了平衡，从ping2heng2mu4上摔了下来。	The girl lost her balance and fell off the balance beam.
骇人听闻	战俘营中hai4 ren2 ting1wen2的生活惨状外人是很难完全体验到的.	It's hard to appreciate the full horror of life in a prison camp.
奇景	他们惊讶地默默凝视那qi2jing3。	They stared at the strange sight in silent wonder.
河道	he2dao4塞满了泥。	The channel of the river filled up with mud.
黝黑	在这阴暗的地方她脸色you3hei1。	Her face was dark in the shadowy place.
慌忙	别huang1mang2，时间多的是。	Don't rush; there is plenty of time.
针扎	她被zhen1zha1了一下。	She pricked herself on a needle.
理想主义	li3xiang3zhu3yi4，是按和问题的距离成正比例而增大的。	Idealism increase in direct proportion to one's distance from the problem.
忧患	那些吵吵闹闹的邻居成了我生活中的一大you1huan4.	Those noisy neighbours are the bane of my life.
花坛	这些幼苗不久将栽到hua1tan2中去。	These young plants will soon be ready for bedding in borders.
日用	他在城里挨家挨户兜售ri4yong4百货.	He peddled small household articles around the town.
凯旋门	你去过Kai3xuan2men2吗？	Have you been to the Triumphal Arch?
余晖	晚霞；yu2hui1日落后，天空中的大气所发散出的短暂光辉	The atmospheric glow that remains for a short time after sunset.
海战	这次hai3zhan4以我们的胜利而告终。	The naval warfare ended in our victory.
后轮	我自行车的hou4lun2车胎没气了。	I got a flat tire of the rear wheel of my bicycle.
开小差	利昂没完成几何作业，因为他思想总在kai1 xiao3chai1，想着班上新来的女生。	Leon didn't finish his geometry homework because his mind kept jumping the track to think about the new girl in class.
饲养员	si4yang3yuan2就是饲养动物的人。	A breeder means a person who breeds animals.
诱因	刺激；you4yin1；动机引起行动或激发努力的某事，比如对惩罚的恐惧或对奖励的期望	Something, such as the fear of punishment or the expectation of reward, that induces action or motivates effort.
在野	汤姆没有工作，身无分文，不得不zai4ye3外露宿了几个月。	Jobless and penniless, Tom had to sleep rough in the fields for several months.
吮吸	经常shun3xi1拇指能使牙齿向外突出.	Thumb-sucking can cause protrusion of the teeth.
梯田	在中国，山区农民在ti1tian2上种水稻。	In China hill farmers grow rice on terraces.
牟利	mou2li4罗，巴托洛米奥·埃斯特巴1617－1682西班牙风俗、肖像和宗教题材的画家，比如圣灵怀胎1668	Spanish painter of genre scenes, portraits, and religious subjects, such as Immaculate Conception(1668).
宣讲	他每逢圣诞节都xuan1jiang3同一教旨.	He preaches the same sermon every Christmas.
围困	被wei2kun4在城里的老百姓已空运到安全地区.	Civilians trapped in the beleaguered city have been airlifted to safety.
千克	一公斤等于一qian1ke4。	One kilogram equals 1000 grams.
消费品	通货紧缩由于可获得货币和信贷的减少，导致xiao1fei4pin3价格水平的持续下降或货币购买力的持续提高	A persistent decrease in the level of consumer prices or a persistent increase in the purchasing power of money because of a reduction in available currency and credit.
失宠	他本是国王的幸臣, 一朝shi1chong3众人无不感到意外.	He had been the king's favourite, and his sudden fall from grace surprised everyone.
十之八九	你认为那个冬季——那个叫做不愉快的冬季——shi2 zhi1 ba1-jiu3会现再次出现吗？	Do you think there is a likelihood that winter-the winter of discontent as it was called-could be repeated?
屏风	他们在他床的四周放上ping2feng1，以便医生给他检查。	They put a screen around his bed so that the doctor could examine him.
关税	进出口的高guan1shui4是国际贸易的障碍。	Heavy duties on imports and exports are a barrier to international trade.
疲软	英镑对美元保持稳定，但对日元则pi2ruan3。	The pound remain firm against the dollar, but fall against the yen.
公报	他把gong1bao4送来，我仔细看了一遍。	He sent me the communique.I looked it through thoroughly.
钮扣	niu3kou4有时是用骨头做的.	Buttons are sometimes made of bone.
环抱	茂密的森林huan2bao4着那个村庄。	A thick forest girdled the village about.
藏书	这一千本书将构成学校新图书馆cang2shu1的基础。	These 1000 books will form the nucleus of the new school library.
自创	往往日本人以zi4chuang4的方法改良我们的机器。就像所有其他半导体公司一样，我们也陷于困境。	And often the Japanese have added proprietary engineering to improve our machines. Like all the other semiconductor firms, we are in a box.
田间	我走在tian2jian1小路上。	I walked on the path of the field.
纵向	这些餐桌是zong4xiang4摆放的。	The tables were laid lengthwise.
取决	一切均将qu3jue2於这些会谈的结果.	Everything hinges on the outcome of these talks.
红叶	香山hong2ye4是北京最浓最浓的秋色。	The red leaves of maple trees of the Fragrant Hills are the most charming autumn scenery in Beijing.
炮台	pao4tai2公园曼哈顿岛南端的公园，位于纽约东南部的纽约湾北端。1808年为保护港口而建，早期荷兰和英国的防御工事及克林顿城堡就在此地	A park at the southern tip of Manhattan Island at the upper end of New York Bay in southeast New York. It is the site of early Dutch and English fortifications and of Castle Clinton, built in1808 for the defense of the harbor.
支票簿	我（的现金和zhi1piao4bu4）被抢了.	I was robbed (of my cash and cheque-book).
少数民族	在那个国家的shao3shu4 min2zu2的国籍问题上仍有争论。	The nationality of the minority groups in that country is still at issue.
若非	我会寂寞，ruo4fei1有鸟也有花。	I should be lonely, were it not for the birds and the flowers.
护目镜	眼镜，hu4mu4jing4镶在轻型框架中，用于纠正视力或保护眼睛的一对镜片	A pair of lenses mounted in a light frame, used to correct faulty vision or protect the eyes.
维生	他靠写小说wei2sheng1。	He earned his bread by writing novels.
缉拿	当局悬赏ji1na2歹徒.	The authorities put a price on the outlaw's head.
叔父	我shu1fu4给他穷困的邻居做了一张桌子和几只凳子。	My uncle carpenter a table and a few stool for his needy neighbor.
赤手空拳	在暴动中，农奴们以chi4shou3-kong1quan2对付钢枪铁炮。	In the uprising the serfs fought with bare hands against gunfire.
全套	这家公司将为所有运动员提供quan2tao4运动服装。	The company will provide the sports outfits for all the players.
镭	lei2和铀是放射性元素.	Radium and uranium are radioactive elements.
提请	敝人也ti2qing3师范学院教育系鲍尔教授作证明人，已得到他的同意。	I am also permitted to refer to Professor Raymond Powell of the Education Department at the Normal college.
农舍	这家nong2she4由于周围的大榆树而增光不少。	The farmhouse is dignified by the great elm around it.
中提琴	zhong1ti2qin2是一种弦乐器.	The viola is a stringed instrument.
籽	亚麻zi3油可以食用吗？	Is linseed oil edible?
瓮	你知道这个weng4的用途吗？	Do you know the purpose of this urn?
教员	她用欺骗手法取得了理科jiao4yuan2的职位，她谎称曾在大学读过书。	She got the job of science teacher by fraudulent means; she pretended she'd studied at university.
一家人	希望你能感到像yi1jia1ren2一样.	We'd like you to feel you're part of the family.
面世	我们正著手生产一种新的款式，可望在秋季mian4shi4。	Our new model is already on the stocks and will be available in the autumn.
气喘	他登上顶端时qi4chuan3得很厉害.	He was quite puffed by the time he reached the top.
冲向	骑士们chong1xiang4宫殿去保护国王。	The knights rushed into the palace to protect their king.
神迹	shen2ji4，启示上帝的权力、能力、显现或面貌	The force, effect, or a manifestation or aspect of this being.
成性	酗酒cheng2xing4的人承认饮酒过度是弊多利少，他这样说实际是自己打自己的嘴巴。	By admitting that excessive drinking does more harm than good, the man who indulged in the practice was condemned out of his own mouth.
驶离	汽车shi3li2道路跌进沟中。	The car ran off the road into a ditch.
胃液	wei4ye4能帮助消化。	Gastric juices help us digest our food.
肿大	肝炎肝部发炎，由传染性或有毒性因素引起。症状为黄疸、发烧、肝部zhong3da4和腹疼	Inflammation of the liver, caused by infectious or toxic agents and characterized by jaundice, fever, liver enlargement, and abdominal pain.
茂密	mao4mi4的森林环抱着那个村庄。	A thick forest girdled the village about.
镇住	她单凭个人气势就zhen4zhu4了会场。	She dominated the meeting by sheer force of character.
原处	画完后请把东西都放回yuan2chu4。	Please put all those things away when you finish drawing.
纤弱	她xian1ruo4的身躯因阵阵咳嗽而发颤。	Her slight frame was shaken by bouts of coughing.
疑云	有一团yi2yun2笼罩著他.	A cloud of suspicion is hanging over him.
有风	东南部you3feng1。	The wind is in the southeast.
炖肉	他吃了整整一听dun4rou4.	He ate a whole tin of stew.
万圣节	有些儿童在Wan4sheng4jie2前夕用南瓜做灯笼.	Some children make lanterns out of pumpkins at Hallowe'en.
惟妙惟肖	汤姆把他叔叔的声音和姿态模仿得wei2miao4-wei2xiao4.	Tom mimicked his uncle's voice and gestures perfectly.
三军	接着我就说，我从来就不知道美国san1jun1的力量削弱到如此危险的地步，我这话可引起了轩然大波。	I then said that I had never known the Services reduced to such a parlous condition. This fairly set the cat among the pigeons.
助听器	我的zhu4ting1qi4是国民保健署资助的.	I got my hearing aid on the National Health (Service).
外流	这个国家最优秀的人才在不断wai4liu2。	This country is being drained of its best talents.
压垮	他的身体被工作ya1kua3了.	His health collapsed under the pressure of work.
零头	这个漂亮的窗帘是用ling2tou2布做的。	The beautiful curtain is made of remnant materials.
有意义	你决不会知道你的鼓励对我多么you3 yi4yi4。	You will never know how much your encouragement meant to me.
絮絮	天哪，他又在xu4xu4不休地谈他感兴趣的问题。有没有法子使他闭嘴？	Oh dear, he's off again on his favourite subject. Isn't there any way of stopping him?
水珠	蒸气接触冷的表面而凝结成shui3zhu1.	Steam condenses/is condensed into water when it touches a cold surface.
蚕	这些can2的吐丝量很大.	The silkworms are producing well.
仪态	少女以前要上yi2tai4课。	Young ladies used to have lessons in deportment.
连锁反应	仿佛一件小事引起了一连串lian2suo3 fan3ying4似的。	It is as if a single unimportant event set up a chain of reactions.
老一套	别玩lao3yi1tao4的把戏了！	Don't play old tricks!
彬彬有礼	礼仪，礼节bin1bin1 you3 li3的行为的习俗	The conventions of polite behavior.
掏腰包	他是自己tao1 yao1bao1的。	He paid for it out of his own pocket.
众议院	她的讲话在zhong4yi4yuan4激起一片抗议声.	Her speech threw the House (ie of Commons) into a tumult (of protest).
和谈	彬彬有礼he2tan2吐得体是文雅的标志。	Good manners and correct speech are marks of refinement.
先下手为强	我还没有告诉我的太太她买衣服花钱太多，她xian1 xia4shou3 wei2 qiang2反问我为什么花那么多钱去买新钓鱼竿。	Before I could tell my wife she had spent too much for the dress, she stole my thunder by asking why I spent so much for the new fishing rod.
夸夸其谈	【谚】与其kua1kua1 qi2 tan2，不如埋头苦干。	It is better to do well than to say well.
和睦相处	在聚会上, 你最好同你的对手he2mu4xiang1chu3。	It is better to be at peace with your rivals at the party.
表兄弟	我是biao3xiong1di4姐妹中年龄最大的。	I am the eldest among my cousins.
薄雾	山顶上bo2wu4环绕。	Mist wreathed the hilltops.
广袤	guang3mao4的平原被厚厚的雪覆盖着。	The vast champaign was covered with thick snow.
丝线	si1xian4一段毛线、粗线或si1xian4，尤指主要用来缝合钮扣孔的结实si1xian4	A length of yarn, cord, or thread, especially a strong silk thread used mainly to bind the edges of buttonholes.
开化	他的著作描述了一个原始社会的kai1hua4过程。	His book describe the march of the civilization of a primitive society.
工作组	政府已成立gong1zuo4zu3调查滥用毒品问题.	The government has set up a working party to look into the problem of drug abuse.
出土	博物馆展出了许多chu1tu3文物。	Many unearthed cultural relics were exhibited at the museum.
倒置	椅子被dao4zhi4过来放在了桌子上。	The chairs were inverted on the table.
成套	我想了解一下贵方是否继续引进先进技术和cheng2tao4工厂设备。	I wonder whether you will go on import some advanced technology and complete plant.
游牧	you2mu4部落的大多人都生活在草原上并且居无定所。	Most of the nomads live in grassland and have no fixed home.
叶片	危险: ye4pian4旋转, 注意安全.	Danger: rotating blades.
祸根	酗酒是他一生的huo4gen1。	Drink was the bane of his life.
天资	tian1zi1天生的能力，如学习；tian1zi1	An inherent ability, as for learning; a talent.
发起人	fa1qi3ren2安排这位年轻的拳击选手同一位更老练的拳击手比赛。	The promoters matched the young boxer with a more skillful fighter.
瓦片	在暴风中屋顶的wa3pian4哗啦啦地落了下来.	During the gale roof tiles came hurtling down.
哦	o2，也许我错了。	Oh, maybe I was wrong.
啦	啊，好la5，一样白米养百样人嘛。	Ah, well, it take all kinds!
嘿	hei1，这个消息太棒了！	Hey, the news's terrific/great!
投票	tou2piao4反对该提议的人占少数。	A small minority voted against the motion.
更新	geng1xin1（旧信息）的信息	Information that updates.
哇	多高大的树wa1!	What a giant of a tree!
家伙	他是个幸运的jia1huo5。	He is a lucky dog.
拥有	她在海滨yong1you3自己的房子。	She owns a house at the seaside.
奖励	值得嘉奖的值得jiang3li4或称赞的；具有价值的	Deserving reward or praise; having merit.
崇拜	盲目chong2bai4对某件事情的盲目或过分投入	Blind or excessive devotion to something.
等级	上流阶层社会deng3ji2，尤指高deng3ji2	Social rank or caste, especially high rank.
评论	国王拒绝ping2lun4选举的结果。	The king refuses to comment on the election results.
现场	那事故发生後不久记者就都赶到了xian4chang3。	Reporters were soon on the scene after the accident.
模式	纯粹地符合类型、标准或mo2shi4地	So as to conform to a type, standard, or pattern.
而已	我需要的不过是一件样品er2yi3。	What I need is nothing but a sample.
修复	卡车严重损坏，已无xiu1fu4的希望。	The lorry was damaged beyond hope of repair.
客户	某企业的ke4hu4或企图寻求优惠或赞助的某机构的客人的旅行	One taken by a person who is the guest of a business or an agency seeking favor or patronage.
夫人	那位fu1ren5带着满意的微笑看着我。	The lady looked at me with a contented smile.
时光	他经常回忆起年轻时代的幸福shi2guang1。	He often retraces the happy time during his young age.
死亡	登记出生或si3wang2的手续很简单.	Registering a birth or death is a straightforward procedure.
天堂	最高天tian1tang2的最高处，古人相信那里完全是火与光的圣地	The highest reaches of heaven, believed by the ancients to be a realm of pure fire or light.
人家	我不喜欢ren2jia5盯著瞧我.	I don't like being stared at.
战斗	战士们发誓zhan4dou4到底。	The soldiers swore to fight it out.
恶心	你觉得e3xin5吗？	Be you feeling nausea?
事业	他已经达到了他shi4ye4的顶峰。	He has reached the zenith of his career.
尸体	秃鹫正在啄食狮子的shi1ti3。	Vultures are picking at a lion's carcass.
屁股	他这个人太懒惰，真想在他pi4gu5上踢一脚。	He is so lazy; he could do with a good kick up the rear.
将军	新任命的jiang1jun1立即向敌人发起攻击.	The new general immediately launched an offensive against the enemy.
砸	用大锤把岩石za2成了碎块.	Huge hammers crush (up) the rocks.
剑	英雄用jian4猛劈巨人。	The hero smote the giant with his sword.
监狱	jian1yu4的大门哐当一声关上了。	The prison gate clanged shut.
恐怖	听到这个坏消息，他心里充满kong3bu4。	He was filled with horror at the bad news.
真相	我不敢去想她知道zhen1xiang4后会怎么样。	I dread to think what will happen if she finds out the truth.
事件	那shi4jian4是值得记忆的。	The event is worthy of being remembered.
选手	目前似乎好的年轻xuan3shou3太少了。	There seems to be a dearth of good young players at the moment.
意识	他没yi4shi2到自己犯了错误。	He was unconscious of his mistake.
导航	我们可以合作发射各种新型卫星，包括用于dao3hang2、气象预报、广播、电子计算机技术等方面的卫星。	New satellites can be launched for use in navigation, weather forecasting, broadcasting, and computer technology.
武器	这些wu3qi4是对世界和平的威胁。	These weapons are a menace to world peace.
发誓	他们fa1shi4要向敌人报仇.	They vowed revenge on their enemies.
凌晨	下议院ling2chen2三时仍在开会.	The House of Commons was still sitting at 3 am.
副	他脸上一fu4凶相。	He has a very fierce look on his face.
冲动	压抑自然的chong1dong4可能会引起心理上的问题。	Inhibition of natural impulses may cause psychological problems.
激情	诗人表达了他对所爱的女子火一般的ji1qing2。	The poet expressed his burning passion for the woman he loved.
孤独	求神赐福於那些饥饿、gu1du2或患病的人.	Bless (ie We ask God to bless) all those who are hungry, lonely or sick.
欢乐	我心里充满了青春的huan1le4。	I'm full of the joys of spring.
撒谎	我最犯不上对你sa1huang3了。	Least of all would I lie to you.
灵魂	如果一个人得到全世界而丧失了ling2hun2，这对他有何益处呢？	What good does it do a man if he gains the whole world but loses his soul?
岁月	她的精心化妆掩饰了脂粉下面sui4yue4刻下的痕迹。	Her careful make-up hid the signs of age beneath.
舞蹈	她写了一本关於wu3dao3的书.	She has written a book on (the) dance.
侦探	zhen1tan4们又开始在那楝房子警戒了。	The detectives resumed their vigil at the house.
即将	他们对ji2jiang1到来的选举作了充分的准备。	They have made good preparation for the upcoming elections.
用户	我们应该接受yong4hu4的建议。	We should adopt the consumers' suggestion.
失踪	警方把shi1zong1姑娘的照片放大了.	The police had the photograph of the missing girl enlarged.
交易	这笔jiao1yi4完全是一个奇迹。	This transaction is nothing less than a miracle.
明明	她笨极了, 什麽事都要给她解释得ming2ming2白白.	She's so stupid that you have to spell everything out.
机遇	不要让ji1yu4从我们身边溜走。	Don't let chances pass by.
穿越	他们计划做chuan1yue4太平洋的旅行。	They planned to voyage across the Pacific Ocean.
结局	这场战争的jie2ju2难以预料.	You can't foretell how the war will end.
尝试	这是他最不可能做的chang2shi4。	This is the last attempt (that) he would make.
能量	太阳是neng2liang4的最基本来源。	The sun is the ultimate source of energy.
线索	我们对她离家後去往何处毫无xian4suo3.	We have no clue as to where she went after she left home.
爆炸	这个炸弹有bao4zha4的危险吗?	Is there any risk of the bomb exploding?
实力	利物浦足球队和英格兰足球队shi2li4相当。	Liver-pool and England are neck and neck in strength.
耍	他在过去的工作岗位上以老看钟盼下班而闻名，如果他在这里还是shua3那一套，他会丢掉工作的。	In his last post he was known as a clock watcher. If he comes that game here, he'll lose his job.
系列	行列行、列、xi4lie4或行列	A row, line, series, or range.
官方	我碰巧身边有guan1fang1的统计数字。	I happen to have the official statistics with me.
攻击	绝望之下，我向gong1ji1者哀求。	In desperation I pleaded with the attackers.
神奇	人们认为这些早期遗物具有shen2qi2的力量.	Miraculous powers are credited to the relics.
灯笼	水池周围的树上悬挂著deng1long5.	Lanterns were strung in the trees around the pool.
钻石	她在新衣服上戴了一枚zuan4shi2别针。	She wore a diamond clip on her new dress.
试图	敌人可能会shi4tu2收买你。	The enemy may try to buy you over.
清醒	数小时后, 他qing1xing3过来。	It was many hours before he came back to life.
魔鬼	他相信mo2gui3、 巫婆这类事.	He believes in devils and witches.
财富	成功和cai2fu4改变了他的性格。	Success and wealth transformed his character.
折磨	蒙难地，蒙难时刻使人受巨大zhe2mo2的事例或地方	An instance or a place of great suffering.
永恒	他们的儿子出世後他送给她一枚表示yong3heng2的戒指.	He gave her an eternity ring when their son was born.
发布	最近已经fa1bu4了禁止进口毒品的法令。	A ban on the importation of drugs had been issued recently.
子弹	警察朝人群上方射出一排zi3dan4。	Police fired a volley over the heads of the crowd.
登陆	部队已在几个地点deng1lu4.	Troops have been landed at several points.
展现	宇宙慢慢地向科学家zhan3xian4了自己的秘密.	The universe is slowly yielding up its secrets to scientists.
年度	如果有人配得上获＂nian2 du4秘书奖＂，那么就是你。	If anyone deserves the""Secretary of the Year Award"", it's you.
意味着	战争的持续yi4wei4zhe5食品短缺。	Continuance of the war will mean shortage of the food.
心灵	读一本好书可以带来xin1ling2的净化。	Reading a good book may bring purification to souls.
盯	你愿意人家ding1著你看吗?	Do you like being stared at?
思念	她给你这份精美礼物足以表示出她对你的si1nian4。	The nice present she gave you spoke volumes for what she thinks of you.
淘汰	她在比赛的第一轮比赛中遭tao2tai4.	She went out in the first round of the tournament/went out of the tournament in the first round.
灿烂	他说日落是多麽的辉煌can4lan4。	He said how glorious the sunset was.
愚蠢	那是我听到的最yu2chun3的事！	That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard!
承诺	我体谅你可能事先已另有cheng2nuo4.	I appreciate that you may have prior commitments.
收藏	他的绘画shou1cang2令人叹为观止。	His collection of paintings is the most impressive.
神经	你吃了这片药shen2jing1就不那麽紧张了。	This pill will help to settle your nerves.
袭击	他因xi2ji1警察而遭两年监禁.	He got two years' imprisonment for assaulting a police officer.
熬	ao2几个晚上对任何人绝无害处.	A few late nights never did anyone any harm.
成员	几乎所有的cheng2yuan2都同意这项提议。	Virtually all the members were in agreement with the proposal.
忙碌	他似乎和往常一样mang2lu4。	He seems to be as busy as ever.
愤怒	我的母亲因我撒谎而fen4nu4。	My mother was wrathful with my lying.
依旧	她yi1jiu4是那个老样。	She still looks her old self.
同志	这件事不久引起了一些领导tong2zhi4的注意。	The matter was soon brought to the notice of some leading comrades.
诱惑	对我们来说金钱是种you4huo4物。	Money is a kind of allurement for us.
造型	边缘装饰在桌子顶部、托盘或书架边缘处的直立的装饰品或zao4xing2	A decorative upright trimming or molding along the edge of a table top, tray, or shelf.
毒品	他被判犯有du2pin3罪而遭驱逐出境.	He was convicted of drug offences and deported.
降临	我们普遍有大祸jiang4lin2的感觉。	We are all pervaded with a sense of disaster.
革命	大多数国家发生过反对政府的ge2ming4。	Most countries have had revolutions aganist the government.
当初	照今天看来，我会说，dang1chu1太草率，如果再有机会，我一定不会那样做。	From today's perspective I'd say I was too hasty and would love to have the chance to do it differently.
跟踪	gen1zong1野生动物必须悄然无声。	Tracking wild animals requires great stealth.
恐惧	她对自己的kong3ju4直言不讳。	She spoke about her fears with complete frankness.
搭配	查阅与物品da1pei4用的确切量词，请参考有关词条。	Please consult the relevant entry to find the correct word for the item concerned.
眼神	她说她很难过, 但从她的yan3shen2里却流露出她内心的喜悦.	She said she was sorry, but her eyes betrayed her secret delight.
嫉妒	我们能否确定这一犯罪动机是出於ji2du4?	Can we assign jealousy as the motive for the crime?
本人	ben3ren2认为此案证据不足.	The case, I would submit, is not proven.
崩溃	他经常抑郁寡欢, 後来精神完全beng1kui4了.	His frequent depressions were the prelude to a complete mental breakdown.
展示	它zhan3shi4了从幼虫变成蝴蝶的过程。	It shows the metamorphosis of a larva into a butterfly.
难得	我的新秘书很好，确实是nan2de2的人才。	My new secretary is very good; quite a find, in fact.
队伍	往後站, 让dui4wu5通过.	Stand back to allow the procession to pass.
卷	工人们正在推juan3线杆。	The worker is pushing the distaff.
州	最近，许多zhou1坚持中学应该教学生如何开车。	Recently, many states have insisted that high schools teach students how to drive.
尴尬	在我现在看来，他那时似乎在叹气，而我吃吃地笑是在隐藏我的gan1ga4。	It seems to me now that he sighed and that I tittered to hide my embarrassment.
警告	他jing3gao4我晚上不要到那去。	He warned me against going there at night.
绑架	这一bang3jia4事件引起了国际纠纷。	The kidnapping caused an international incident.
社区	他的话对she4qu1所有成员是故意的侮辱。	His speech was an affront to all members of the community.
公民	植树是每个gong1min2的义务。	It's our civic duty to plant trees.
代价	你以後要为你的愚蠢行动付出 dai4jia4的.	You'll pay later for your follies.
对付	现在该dui4fu5我的家庭作业了.	It's time to tackle my homework.
天生	本事不是tian1sheng1的，是锻炼出来的。	Ability is not innate, but comes through practice.
回报	若你方经销我们的货物，我方愿给予你相当大的优惠作为hui2bao4。	If you promote our goods, we will give you a good discount as our part of the bargain.
镜头	照相机的jing4tou2不可受到阳光的直射。	The camera lens must be screened from direct sunlight.
背叛	他非但不接受我的劝告，反而bei4pan4了我。	Far from accepting my advice, he went back on me.
事故	这一shi4gu4正在调查之中。	The accident is under investigation.
爆发	这个运动员具有惊人的bao4fa1速度。	The athlete has an electrifying burst of speed.
惊讶	我一点也不jing1ya4她的率直。	I'm not surprised at her frankness.
诞生	我极想看看那国王dan4sheng1的房子。	I am curious to see the house where the king was born.
间谍	那名jian4die2把秘密计画泄漏给敌人。	The spy divulged the secret plans to the enemy.
逮捕	你不能毫无根据地dai4bu3他。	You shouldn't arrest him without warrant.
渴望	她ke3wang4摆脱母亲的操纵.	She longed to escape from her mother's domination.
监视	警方jian1shi4著他常去的酒吧.	The police watched the bars which he was known to resort.
在意	现代音乐最初是zai4yi4大利发展起来的。	Modern music was first developed in Italy.
抛弃	他和妻子吵架後就把她pao1qi4了。	He had a row with his wife and just walked out on her.
宇宙	yu3zhou4之大令人吃惊.	Distancesin space are quite mind-boggling.
毫无	她干涉得hao2wu2道理.	Her interference was not warranted.
迷人	玛丽对男人和女人充满了mi2ren2的想法。	Mary is full of fascinating theories about men and women.
提示	这个纵横字谜的ti2shi4完全把我弄糊涂了.	I am totally bewildered by the clues to this crossword puzzle.
确保	政府已经采取了措施以que4bao3物价稳定。	The government has taken a measure to maintain the stability of prices.
角落	她坐在jiao3luo4里注视著我的一举一动.	She sat in the corner, watching my every move.
信仰	我们不应该嘲笑别人的宗教xin4yang3。	We should not mock at other people's religious beliefs.
荣幸	我认为能向各位贵宾演讲十分rong2xing4.	I esteem it a privilege to address such a distinguished audience.
任意	如果合同一方可以ren4yi4对待履约而使对方蒙受损害，当然不能认为公正。	It is unjust if one party should treat a contract arbitrarily at the expense of the other.
突破	示威群众企图tu1po4警察的封锁线.	Demonstrators tried to break through the police cordon.
牺牲	为致富而xi1sheng1原则是不值得的.	Getting rich isn't worth the sacrifice of your principles.
无辜	把wu2gu1的人投入监狱显然是审判不公.	Sending an innocent man to prison is a clear miscarriage of justice.
宁愿	我ning4yuan4被嘲笑，也不愿和他吵架。	I would rather be laughed at than quarrel with him.
忍受	她不能ren3shou4那个人。	She can't abide that man.
生物	据信这种sheng1wu4来自外太空。	These creatures were believed to have come from outer space.
版本	这本字典的新ban3ben3还未通行。	The new version of this dictionary is not in use yet.
释放	植物可以吸收二氧化碳shi4fang4氧气。	Plants can absorb carbon dioxide and release oxygen.
绝望	他陷於jue2wang4, 终於自杀了.	He surrendered (himself) to despair and eventually committed suicide.
军队	国家元首被jun1dui4废黜了。	The head of state was deposed by the army.
乐趣	电影使亿万人获得le4qu4。	Movies give delight to millions of people.
脆弱	这个错误证明他也是个凡人；人的cui4ruo4	A mistake that shows he's only human; human frailty.
乐意	我十分le4yi4为你做任何事情。	I am quite willing to do anything for you.
艰难	需要进行jian1nan2的谈判.	Some hard bargaining is called for.
机构	你们公司的ji1gou4是怎样的?	What's the set-up (like) in your company?
欺骗	他用qi1pian4手段说服她在文件上签字。	He persuaded her to sign the document by guile.
装备	新医院的全部设备需要一年才能zhuang1bei4好。	The complete equipment of the new hospital will take a year.
生存	没有空气或水，我们就无法sheng1cun2。	We can't live without air or water.
暴力	教友派信徒们强烈反对bao4li4和战争。	Quakers strongly oppose violence and war.
夫妇	他们结为fu1-fu4共同生活了很多年.	They lived together as husband and wife for years.
感染	由於受gan3ran3的风险很大，无菌注射针的使用受到了重视。	The high risk of infection put a premium on the use of sterile needle.
人间	男女主人（在客ren2jian1）走来走去招待客人.	The host and hostess circulated (among their guests).
执行	处决囚犯过去都是公开zhi2xing2的。	There used to be public executions.
完毕	第一个问题既然已经讨论wan2bi4，我们就进行第二个吧。	Now that we have finished discussing the first problem, we may pass on to the second.
进展	谈判取得了良好的jin4zhan3.	Positive progress has been achieved during the negotiations.
欲望	他们对财富[致富]无大yu4wang4.	They had little desire for wealth/to get rich.
危机	目前的wei1ji1比以前发生过的都严重。	The present crisis is more than any that have gone before.
期望	他的工作符合了我们的qi1wang4。	His work comes up to what we expect of him.
亲密	qin1mi4的以密切的相识、联系或熟悉为标志的	Marked by close acquaintance, association, or familiarity.
哼	子弹击中他时他疼得heng1了出来。	He grunted as the bullet hit him.
扣	雇主kou4下你部分薪金作保险金用.	A certain percentage of your salary is kept back by your employer as an insurance payment.
无比	她为自己的孩子取得的成绩感到wu2bi3骄傲。	She takes great pride in her children's success.
皆	人jie1有一死.	All men must die.
美妙	她mei3miao4的声音把他们迷住了。	Her beautiful voice fascinated them.
灵感	他最好的乐曲创作ling2gan3来自怀念他的母亲。	His best music was inspired by the memory of his mother.
文艺	我们的wen2yi4必须为大众所喜闻乐见。	Our literature and art ought to cater to popular taste.
打击	她母亲去世对她是个沉重的da3ji1。	It was a great blow to her when her mother died.
新娘	我们要为xin1niang2的健康干杯。	We must drink to the health of the bride.
仪式	那个典礼有点像洗礼yi2shi4.	The ceremony was something like a christening.
捏	他nie1那孩子的脸颊玩.	He pinched the child's cheek playfully.
抢劫	午饭时, qiang3jie2者袭击了我们。	The robbers descended on us at lunch-time.
基地	火箭绕地球运行一周后返回ji1di4。	The rocket did one circuit of the earth and returned to base.
打架	我不想da3jia4.	I had no stomach for a fight.
欺负	别让那些大孩子qi1fu5你, 要保护你自己!	Don't allow those big boys to bully you; stick up for yourself!
立场	那麽, 你改变li4chang3了, 你这可耻的叛徒!	So you've changed sides, you dirty rat!
案件	他们的an4jian4现在正在讨论中。	Their case is now under discussion.
动力	我不知道他的dong4li4是什么。	I don't understand what his motive is.
协议	双方都应按xie2yi4条款办事。	Both sides should act according to the provisions of the agreement.
惩罚	他应该受到法律最严厉的cheng2fa2。	He deserves to be punished with the full rigor of the law.
动手	我dong4shou3搬那些瓷制饰物，但在移动时摔了一只花瓶。	I started moving the china ornaments but dropped a vase in the process.
魔术	他表演了一些巧妙的mo2shu4。	He played some clever magic tricks.
往事	这个地方使人回忆起许多生动的wang3shi4。	This place conjures up vivid memories.
指甲	你为什么老是咬zhi3jia5?	Why are you always biting your nails?
统统	他决定将全部东西—房子、家具、汽车tong3tong3卖掉。	He decided to sell the whole shooting match—his house, furniture and car.
中央	zhong1yang1C音相当於每秒钟振动256次.	Middle C is equivalent to 256 vibrations per second.
果断	他一听到这个消息就guo3duan4地采取了行动。	He acted with decision as soon as he heard the news.
起码	抄袭者，qi3ma3也有保存文物的功劳。	Plagiarists, at least, have the merit of preservation.
滋味	成功的zi1wei4能让人对之形成习惯	The taste of success may become habit-forming.
解雇	如果你再迟到，你将被jie3gu4。	If you are late again, you will be dismissed.
艘	这sou1船被允许停泊在这儿。	This ship is approved to berth here.
天才	我们总是不断寻找新的tian1cai2.	We're always looking for new/fresh talent.
清理	她要他qing1li3好他弄得乱七八糟的东西。	She tell him to clear up the mess he have make.
本身	船只ben3shen1需要海军和空军的保护。	The ships required the protection of naval and air power.
化妆	她一hua4zhuang1就是几个小时.	She spends hours painting her face.
指望	不要zhi3wang5一个星期就能学会一门外语.	You can't expect to learn a foreign language in a week.
心疼	这样浪费，真叫人看了xin1teng2。	It makes one's heart ache to see such waste.
痕迹	这hen2ji4是朝著上方的.	The track tends upwards.
摆脱	只需一笔贷款就能帮我bai3tuo1困境。	A loan of money would help me out of my predicament.
潮流	流行敏感的，赶新潮的对最新的chao2liu2或发展很敏感的，感兴趣的或了解的	Keenly aware of, knowledgeable about, or interested in the latest trends or developments.
类似	角制的用动物角或lei4si4物质制成的	Made of horn or a similar substance.
集团	这个一度十分重要的社会ji2tuan2（对治理该国的影响）越来越无足轻重了.	This once important social group is becoming more and more marginal (to the way the country is run).
混乱	咱们努力收拾这个hun4luan4的局面吧.	Let's try to straighten out this confusion.
残酷	他要他们加班工作, 真是can2ku4。	He was cruel to make them work overtime.
技巧	她在工作中表现出高度的ji4qiao3.	She shows a high degree of skill in her work.
沉重	chen2zhong4的脚步声显示教师已经走近了。	Heavy footsteps signalled the teacher's approach.
罪犯	这些zui4fan4都是社会的渣滓。	These criminals are the dregs of society.
屏幕	装备有雷达的飞机，在夜间飞行时飞行员能够在雷达ping2mu4上看见远处的建筑物、或许还能看见前面几英里远的险峻山峰。	The pilot in an airplane equipped with radar, flying at night, can see on the radar viewing screen distant buildings, or perhaps a dangerous mountain peak that is miles ahead.
联盟	该党可能与工党重新组成新的lian2meng2.	The party may realign (itself) with Labour in a new coalition.
拜访	我尽量去bai4fang3每一位女士。	I was all for calling on each of these ladies.
和谐	天空和大海构成了一幅he2xie2的画面。	The sky and the sea make a harmonious picture.
幼稚	他竟然you4zhi4得连这种谎言都相信。	He is so naive as to believe such a lie.
情报	你收集到的大部分qing2bao4没有实用价值。	Much of the information you have gleaned is of no practical use.
疾病	那ji2bing4多见於农村地区.	The disease occurs most frequently in rural areas.
野蛮	那群ye3man2的士兵杀了很多人。	The group of barbaric soldiers killed many people.
达成	让我们da2cheng2切实可行的协议以尽快开始工作.	Let's have a clear no-nonsense agreement to start work as soon as possible.
荣誉	荣耀的事授予rong2yu4或声誉的事	Something conferring honor or renown.
喉咙	把嘴张大，让我看一下你的hou2long2。	Open your mouth wide so that I can look at your throat.
擅长	他非常shan4chang2於模仿朋友的言行.	He's very clever at imitating his friends.
人士	女王将爵士头衔授予几位杰出ren2shi4。	The Queen conferred knighthood on several distinguished men.
乘	一行人分cheng2三部车子。	The party separated into three cars.
给予	我现在需要的是一个幸福家庭所ji3yu3的安全感。	What I need now is the security of a happy home.
栋	那dong4旧房子的屋顶塌下了。	The roof of the old house caved in.
挣扎	两船相撞之後都zheng1zha2著驶进海港.	After the collision both vessels managed to limp into harbour.
随意	他sui2yi4打开了这本书。	He opens the book at random.
带领	队长dai4ling3我们队取得了胜利。	The captain led our team to victory.
区域	警方的程序规章定立後, 遗留下许多难以处理的灰色qu1yu4.	When the rules for police procedure were laid down, a lot of grey areas remained.
遥远	旅行者一个旅行或已经旅行过的人，如到yao2yuan3的地方	One who travels or has traveled, as to distant places.
慈善	人道主义，博爱精神对人类福利的关注，尤指通过ci2shan4活动表现出来的	Concern for human welfare, especially as manifested through philanthropy.
转移	她zhuan3yi2目光不看那可怕的情景。	She averted her eyes from the terrible sight.
码头	我们把船停泊在ma3tou5处.	We tied (the boat) up alongside the quay.
助手	请允许我（向你）介绍我的新zhu4shou3.	May I present my new assistant (to you).
贼	那个zei2偷偷（从後门）溜出去了.	The thief slipped out (by the back door).
维生素	身体缺乏wei2sheng1su4就会生病.	Deficiency in vitamins/Vitamin deficiency can lead to illness.
宽容	随着逐渐成熟，许多年轻的激进分子对 生活和社会渐持较为kuan1rong2的态度。	As they mature, many young radicals mellow into a more tolerant attitude towards life and society.
磅	我每月的收入是200多bang4。	My monthly income was just over 200 pounds.
依靠	这木筏yi1kao4空汽油桶的浮力漂浮。	The raft was buoyed up by empty petrol cans.
华丽	这个城市的公园以其hua2li4的喷泉而著名。	The parks of this city are famous for their ornate fountains.
争夺	他们是彼此zheng1duo2第一名的老对手。	They are old rivals vying with each other for first place.
趴	耳後的一击使他pa1倒在地板上。	A blow behind the ear stretched him on the floor.
嘲笑	一般人也许会chao2xiao4他的音乐，但我们更了解它。	The multitude may laugh at his music, but we know better.
陷入	慢慢地他xian4ru4睡梦之中。	Gradually he sank into sleep.
保姆	那个退休妇女是个临时bao3mu3。	That retired woman is a baby-sitter.
拼命	虽然他pin1ming4向她求爱，但她还是拒绝了他的殷勤。	Although he tried desperately to make love to her, she repulsed his attentions.
发觉	她fa1jue2地毯下面有许多尘土.	She found a lot of dust underneath the carpet.
异常	他处于yi4chang2焦虑的状态。	He was in a state of great agitation.
残忍	在神话故事中，魔鬼很can2ren3而且吃人。	In fairy stories, the ogre is cruel and eats people.
关怀	那位体贴的丈夫对妻子的guan1huai2使她感觉很不高兴。	The solicitude of the caring husband for his wife made her feel unhappy.
理智	他的行为毫无li3zhi4，我认为他一定是疯了。	His action are so irrational that I think he must be off his chump.
维持	心脏是wei2chi2生命必须的器官。	The heart is a vital organ.
依赖	找个工作，别再yi1lai4你的父母了。	Find a job and end your dependence on your parents.
循环	血液在动脉血管中xun2huan2。	The blood coursed through the arteries.
珍贵	那本旧书是我最zhen1gui4的财产。	That old book is my most precious possession.
党	我dang3在南方有一大批拥护者.	Our party has a large following in the south.
症状	这种病的zheng4zhuang4是发烧与呕吐.	The symptoms of this disease are fever and sickness.
周年	他给我一条项链作为zhou1nian2纪念礼物。	He gave me a necklace as an anniversary gift.
毁灭	那次失败hui3mie4了我所有的希望。	That defeat meant the death of all my hopes.
扮演	他在这个剧中ban4yan3哈姆雷特。	He played the personage of Hamlet in the play.
天赋	简而言之,他没有tian1fu4学历史。	In a word, history is not the subject he is cut out for.
风暴	这幅画表现的是海上feng1bao4。	This painting is a representation of a storm at sea.
坦白	他供认抢劫银行案後, 又tan3bai2了其他罪行.	He confessed to other crimes subsequent to the bank robbery.
考验	因此他们经受不住任何严重的kao3yan4。	That is why they cannot stand up to any serious test.
辉煌	对您取得的hui1huang2成绩，谨此致以诚挚的祝贺。	Sincerest congratulations of your splendid success.
过于	尽量不要guo4yu2为此烦恼。	Try not to get too upset about it.
活力	那条消息使工人获得新的huo2li4。	The news infused the workers with new life.
癌症	这一发现标志著治疗ai2zheng4的 一大突破.	This discovery marks a quantum leap forward in the fight against cancer.
震惊	他的死使我们大家都大为zhen4jing1。	His death was a great shock to us all.
黎明	那囚犯在li2ming2时被（行刑队）处决.	The prisoner was put to death (by firing squad) at dawn.
扎	我的手指叫针给zha1了一下.	I gave my finger a prick with a needle.
思维	你对词汇的把握程度反映了你的智力水平，当你通过学习掌握了更多的词汇析时候，偿大脑的si1wei2能力也会啬。	The extent of your vocabulary indicates the degree of your intelligence. Your brain power will increase as you learn to know more words.
确信	我que4xin4你是对的。	I'm sure you're right.
面子	我知道你不喜欢他，但你至少要照顾一下mian4zi5去参加他公司的开典仪式。	I know you didn't like him, but at least have the decency to go to his opening ceremony of the company.
超越	那辆汽车一加速就chao1yue4了我.	The car accelerated as it overtook me.
清晨	qing1chen2地里覆盖着一层白霜。	The field was covered with rime in the early morning.
遭遇	各队为取得第一名在激烈的竞争中zao1yu4	The teams met in fierce contention for first place.
忠诚	新总统对不zhong1cheng2的陆军军官进行了一次整肃。	The new president carried out a purge of disloyal army officers.
平凡	ping2fan2，琐屑ping2fan2、琐屑的性质或状态	The quality or condition of being trivial.
气象	无线电高空测候器一种被带到高空（主要由气球）进行qi4xiang4数据收集和传送的仪器	An instrument carried aloft, chiefly by balloon, to gather and transmit meteorological data.
流氓	那liu2mang2用一根绳子把她勒死了。	The hooligan strangled her with a piece of string.
浑身	我hun2shen1疼痛.	I'm aching all over.
来源	这消息来自可靠的lai2yuan2。	The news comes from a reliable source.
清晰	qing1xi1地表达或呈现的；容易理解的	Clearly expressed or presented; easy to understand.
联络	请您告诉我怎样去lian2luo4律师？	Could you please inform me how to go about contacting a lawyer?
素质	他具有成为一名好医生的su4zhi4。	He has the makings of a good doctor.
晃	这堆书huang3了几下，然后就倒了。	The piles of books tottered and then fell.
时机	你得等候适当shi2ji1.	You'll have to watch for the right moment.
领袖	大家都想让他当ling3xiu4.	The people want him as their leader.
消除	我们必须xiao1chu2分歧以挽救公司.	We must sink our differences and save the firm.
值班	我八点钟就到医院了，但是九点钟我才去zhi2ban1。	I arrive at the hospital at eight o'clock, but I don't go on duty until nine.
证实	已经zheng4shi2，记忆存在于某些金属中。	Memory has been shown to reside in some metals.
拨	我们已经把今年bo1给我们的全部经费都花光了.	We've spent our entire allocation for the year.
进攻	士兵们随时准备粉碎敌人的jin4gong1。	The soldiers are ready at all times to smash the enemy's attacks.
剧本	这个ju4ben3通常认为是莎士比亚作的.	This play is usually attributed to Shakespeare.
本事	不一会儿，她把话题岔开了，不过全凭她施展出深通人情世故的女人的全部ben3shi5。	Presently, thought with all the skill of a woman of the world, she shuffled away the subject.
成交	当我们查明何时有货，价格多少时，将立即通知贵公司，以什么价格可以cheng2jiao1。	As soon as the purchase is made, and the price ascertain, I will inform you at what they will be invoiced.
强迫	qiang3po4推行一项政策不是办法。	It is not the proper way to implement a policy by force.
膝盖	她的xi1gai4撞到床角上了.	She hit her knee against the angle of the bed.
操作	她给我们作示范，说明怎样cao1zuo4这部机器。	She gave us a demonstration of the machine to show how it worked.
报复	比尔上了哥哥的当, 发誓要bao4fu4.	Bill swore he'd get even with his brother, who'd played a dirty trick on him.
过度	紧张guo4du4的或兴奋guo4du4的；紧张的	Excessively nervous or excited; agitated.
非法	我们被指控fei1fa3携带货物入境.	We were alleged to have brought goods into the country illegally.
可恶	他们说那样的话真是ke3wu4。	It's wicked of them to say such things.
脂肪	zhi1fang2食品；zhi1fang2沉淀	Fatty food; fatty deposits.
漫长	他平安的消息到达她那里之前，那段时间似乎是无限man4chang2的。	It seemed an eternity before news of his safety reached her.
坚定	他是君主制的jian1ding4拥护者。	He's a staunch supporter of the monarchy.
外表	他wai4biao3粗鲁，心地善良。	He has a rough outside, but a good heart.
保重	再见, 多bao3zhong4!	Good bye, and take care!
患者	他对我说，你是一个了不起的huan4zhe3。	He tells me you are his prize patient.
清洁	一方面，他们可以保持水的qing1jie2。	For one thing they keep the water clean.
哄	他hong1她同意带她去看电影。	He coaxed her into letting him take her to the cinema.
元素	科学家们正在寻找一种新yuan2su4。	The scientists are in search of a new element.
政策	政府的zheng4ce4开始发挥作用了.	The government's policies are beginning to tell.
不止	据说兔子有bu4zhi3一个洞穴。	It's said that a rabbit usually will have more than one burrows.
审判	英国人引以自豪的传统之一是有获得公正shen3pan4的权利.	One of the glories of the British heritage is the right to a fair trial.
鉴于	jian4yu2这些事实，一个专门委员会被委任。	In view of these facts, one the specialized commission is appointed.
选举	当地人xuan3ju3了六名立法委员。	Six legislators were elected by local people.
酒精	这种物质能够溶解在jiu3jing1中。	This substance is soluble in alcohol.
终究	沿这条小径走zhong1jiu1会见到大路的。	Follow the footpath and you'll eventually hit the road.
解放	jie3fang4使我们的生活有了保障。	Liberation brought security to us.
饮食	良好的yin3shi2有益於健康.	A good diet conduces to good health.
十足	他是个shi2zu2的蠢驴.	He's an absolute donkey.
疲惫	他回到家里时已是pi2bei4不堪。	He was beaten out with fatigue when he got home.
保密	我们的计划必须bao3mi4。	Our plan must remain a secret.
看待	由于获得了新的希望，我正试图用新的眼光kan4dai4生活。	Having gained new hope, I am trying to see life in a better light.
防止	当局已采取措施fang2zhi3偷税漏税。	The authorities took measures to prevent tax fraud.
访问	总统正在对欧洲做私人fang3wen4。	The president is paying a private visit to Europe.
注射	医生给她zhu4she4以减轻疼痛.	The doctor gave her an injection to alleviate the pain.
鄙视	但愿上帝使我们不至于bi3shi4我们的统治者，更愿上帝使他们不至于作出我们禁不住要bi3shi4他们的行动。	Oh Lord, grant that we may not despise our rulers; and grant, oh Lord, that they may not act so we can't help it.
暗示	我一点头, 就是an4shi4你把会议中断.	When I nod my head, that's your cue to interrupt the meeting.
眼光	她以怀疑的yan3guang1注视著我.	She stared at me with unbelieving eyes.
充实	良好的书藉是使人生变得chong1shi2之物。	Good books are an enrichment of life.
隐瞒	他在陈述事实, 但他yin3man2了一些事。	He may be telling the truth but he is keeping something back.
基金	我刚提出筹集ji1jin1的问题, 他急忙插嘴说问题已经解决了.	When I brought up the question of funding, he quickly interjected that it had been settled.
民主	这场革命把国家引上了通往min2zhu3的道路。	The revolution set the country on the road to democracy.
动机	警方已排除该谋杀案中有抢劫的dong4ji1.	The police have excluded robbery as a motive for the murder.
绅士	他那彬彬有礼的举止显出他是个shen1shi4.	His polite manners bespoke the gentleman.
细胞	原生质体植物xi4bao1或细菌xi4bao1的有生命的部分，包括原生质和去掉xi4bao1壁后的质膜	The living material of a plant or bacterial cell, including the protoplasm and plasma membrane after the cell wall has been removed.
莫名其妙	我就是觉得这件事mo4 ming2 qi2 miao4。	I was just wondering about that myself.
枕头	只有一个zhen3tou5--我跟你掷硬币决定谁用吧.	There's only one pillow I'll toss you for it.
沮丧	想到还需重新考试，我就感到ju3sang4。	The thought of having to take the exam again depressed me.
开除	你再迟到一次, 就把你kai1chu2.	Arrive late once more and (ie If you arrive late once more) you're fired.
任性	顽固的，ren4xing4的好与人作对的；执拗的或故意作对的	Given to recalcitrant behavior; willful or perverse.
发射	从军舰上向飞机fa1she4导弹.	The missiles were shot at the aircraft from a ship.
正义	做事要有是非观念和zheng4yi4感.	Be guided by your sense of what is right and just.
情节	我逐步构想出小说的qing2jie2.	The plot for the novel gradually developed in my mind.
罐	把食品装guan4加以保存。	Food is tinned to preserve it.
记载	公司ji4zai3了另一个销售额增长年。	The company had record another year of increase sale.
回顾	hui2gu4过去就很容易明白我们的错处了.	In retrospect, it's easy to see why we were wrong.
消灭	不管侵略者什麽时候来，都必被xiao1mie4。	No matter when the invader comes, they will be wiped out clean.
需求	我们必须提高产量满足xu1qiu2。	We must increase our output to meet demand.
人性	ren2xing4的弱点之一是懒惰。	One of the frailties of human nature is laziness.
灾难	这次地震是个可怕的zai1nan4。	The earthquake was a terrible catastrophe.
助理	首席小提琴手在交响乐队中的第一小提琴手兼zhu4li3指挥	The first violinist and assistant conductor in a symphony orchestra.
舌头	医生诊看了她的she2tou5。	The doctor looked at her tongue.
太空	对伽利略来说，地球上和tai4kong1中有不同的运动法则是没有多大意义。	It didn't make much sense to Galileo to have different rules for motion on earth and in space.
肺	fei4是呼吸器官。	The lungs are respiratory organs.
反抗	殖民地的人们拿起武器fan3kang4英国统治者。	The colonists took up weapons to rebel against the British ruler.
尊严	注重zun1yan2的人都会轻视那种行为。	All people with a sense of decency will look down upon such conduct as that.
旋转	跳舞的人xuan2zhuan3著, 裙子也不停地打转.	Dancers spun in a swirl of skirts.
当前	｀有解释责任＇是dang1qian2政治上的流行词.	`Accountability' is the current vogue-word in politics.
顿时	她读着这个文件时，脸色dun4shi2开朗起来。	Her face cleared up as she read the document.
信念	她始终坚持自己的xin4nian4。	She always holds to her convictions.
节奏	她喜欢随着快jie2zou4的音乐跳舞。	She loves to dance to fast music.
探索	我们开始tan4suo3宇宙的奥秘。	We begin to plumb the mysteries of the universe.
包装	我们用锡纸bao1zhuang1以保持原味.	Our foil packets seal the flavour in.
场面	该议会的开幕式chang3mian4隆重.	The ceremonial opening of Parliament was a fine spectacle.
皇后	huang2hou4要求儿子娶邻国的公主。	The empress asked his son to marry the princess of the neighboring kingdom.
嫌	【谚】改过不xian2晚。	It is never too late to mend.
制服	那些犯人被警察轻而易举地zhi4fu2了。	The criminals were easily overpowered by the police.
负担	我要尽力避免在晚年时成为孩子们的fu4dan1。	I will try to avoid come upon my children in my old age.
光荣	你的拜访对我来说是一种guang1rong2。	The meaning of your visit was translated to me as a sign of your affection.
被告	陪审团做出bei4gao4无罪的裁决.	The jury returned a verdict of (ie reached a decision that the accused was) not guilty.
创新	麻醉是一项伟大的医学chuang4xin1。	Anesthesia was a great innovation in medicine.
人质	ren2zhi4被（用绳）捆住并塞住了口.	The hostages were bound (with ropes) and gagged.
弥补	这动物嗅觉灵敏mi2bu3了视力之不足.	The animal's good sense of smell compensates for its poor eyesight.
良心	道格培里：老爷，弗吉斯先生讲起话来总是有点缠夹不清；他年纪大了，老爷，……可是说句liang2xin1话，他是个老实不过的人。	Dog-berry: Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter: an old man, sir,…but, in faith, honest as the skin between his brows.
喜悦	爱情、 xi3yue4、 憎恨、 恐惧、 嫉妒都是强烈的感情.	Love, joy, hate, fear and jealousy are all emotions.
宗教	我了解一些世界上的神秘zong1jiao4。	I know some world's mystic religions.
暴露	那时他没bao4lu4他的身份。	He didn't reveal his identity at that time.
足以	这条河很宽，zu2yi3使很多船通过。	The waterway is wide for many ships to pass through.
发财	她生活的唯一目的似乎是fa1cai2。	Get rich seem to be her only purpose in life.
透露	他没有向我们tou4lu4他的意图.	He has given us no intimation of his intentions/what he intends to do.
古怪	他的举动似乎有些gu3guai4.	His behaviour seemed queer.
卫星	藉助wei4xing1可观察到部队的调动.	Troop movements can be observed from space by a satellite.
设置	指定，预定为了某种特定的目的指定或she4zhi4某物的行为	An act of appointing or setting aside for a specific purpose.
动员	全体居民都dong4yuan2起来，防止森林火灾。	The entire population was mobilized to watch for forest fires.
搓	他眼看著他们行将失败, 快乐得直cuo1手.	He rubbed his hands with glee at the prospect of their defeat.
人格	基督ren2ge2基督最重要的ren2ge2，在这ren2ge2里他的人性和神性结合	The essential person of Jesus in which his human and divine natures are united.
辩护	这位部长慷慨陈词为其政策bian4hu4, 反驳批评他的人.	The minister countered his critics with a strong speech defending his policies.
捧	他用手把硬币peng3了起来.	He scooped the coins up in his hands.
压抑	这种建筑风格让我感到很ya1yi4。	This kind of architectural style depresses me.
奇妙	一位工程师作了一次关于这个qi2miao4装置的报告。	A talk was given by an engineer of this wonderful device.
染	我丈夫不允许我ran3指甲。	My husband doesn't allow me to paint my nails.
竞选	警方在jing4xuan3之夜制止了几处骚乱。	The police stopped several riots on election night.
试验	这套装置必须经过shi4yan4之后才能投产。	The system will have to be tested before it goes into production.
并非	我bing4fei1因为他有学问而尊敬他。	I do not respect him because he is knowledgeable.
领先	ling3xian1的那辆赛车在第十圈的中途撞毁了。	The leading car crashed midway through the tenth lap.
混合	把面粉和液体hun4he2到适当的浓度.	Mix flour and liquid to the right consistency.
跌	脚下一滑就可能从悬崖上die1下去.	One slip and you could fall off the cliff.
纯粹	这种令人惊骇的谋杀chun2cui4是疯子的行为.	This dreadful murder is surely the act of a madman.
精致	她穿了一件带有jing1zhi4花边的裙子。	She wears a dress with delicate lace.
要命	那孩子让狂风暴雨吓得yao4ming4.	The child was frightened to death by the violent thunderstorm.
协会	她加入了大学里的艺术xie2hui4。	She joined the university art society.
主管	zhu3guan3人，尤指大学校长或学院院长	A president, especially of a college or university.
维护	wei2hu4公共秩序是警察的职责。	It's the duty of the police to preserve the public order.
出卖	我恳求你不要chu1mai4国家。	I conjure you not to betray your country.
鉴定	我们将对他带来的矿石做实验jian4ding4。	We will make an assay of the ore that he brought.
荒谬	我觉得这个计画huang1miu4可笑.	The plan strikes me as ridiculous.
神圣	我可告诉你，在那个shen2sheng4的日子里不许打猎或搞娱乐活动消遣。	I charge you not to hunt or recreate your selves on that sacred day.
保卫	总统有六名警卫员时时刻刻在左右bao3wei4.	The President always has six bodyguards in close attendance.
当事人	一种诉讼案。在此案中一方dang1shi4ren2要求获得被另一dang1shi4ren2所占有的财产或货物。	Court case in which one party claim property or goods in the possession of the other.
冲突	双方军队在边境的chong1tu1引发了战争。	A border clash between the two armies started the war.
支援	他们主动捐款zhi1yuan2此事.	They pitched in with contributions of money.
保守	也许我这么说可以更清楚一点：老一辈人一般都是bao3shou3的。	Perhaps I can make that clearer by saying the older generation is generally conservative.
挫折	我们（在财务上）受到一些严重cuo4zhe2.	We suffered some serious (financial) reverses.
部位	壁身体bu4wei4、器官或腔的外表面。常用复数	A wall of a body part, organ, or cavity. Often used in the plural.
补偿	他提高售价以bu3chang2材料增加的成本。	He raised his prices to offset the increased cost of materials.
智能	其功能可以利用程序建立或改变的，有时也称zhi4neng2的（例如“一个可编程终端”，“一个可编程的机床”）。	Also, sometimes, intelligent. With a function that can be established or changed by means of a program;(""a programmable terminal"";""a programmable machine tool"").
职位	她希望争取到总统zhi2wei4。	She hopes to win the presidency.
固执	你若gu4zhi2, 他们就更恼火了.	If you persist, you will annoy them even more.
倾听	她脸上带著困惑的表情在qing1ting1著。	She listened with a puzzled expression on her face.
终点	我们到旅程zhong1dian3时全都累垮了.	We were all suffering from fatigue at the end of our journey.
呈现	秋季来临时，玉米地里cheng2xian4出丰收的景象。	As autumn draws near, the cornfields show signs of ripeness.
无能为力	我们只好等等看, 现在wu2 neng2 wei2 li4.	We shall just have to wait and see; there's nothing we can do at the moment.
侮辱	虽然他是懦夫，却无法忍受这样的wu3ru3。	Coward as he is (=Though he is a coward), he can't bear such an insult.
扑	那狗pu1向我时, 我用棍子自卫.	When the dog attacked me, I defended myself with a stick.
基因	重组父母没有表现而其子嗣自然形成ji1yin1重组之现象，这是由于采用了杂交或独立分类的方法而出现的	The natural formation in offspring of genetic combinations not present in parents, by the processes of crossing over or independent assortment.
福利	她打算毕业後从事社会fu2li4工作.	She wants to do social work when she finishes college.
走廊	容纳不下的病人躺在地上和zou3lang2里。	Overflow patients lay on the floors and in the corridors.
提议	与会的人大都反对此项ti2yi4.	The feeling of the meeting (ie The opinion of the majority) was against the proposal.
虚伪	我很讨厌他那麽xu1wei3.	His hypocrisy makes me sick.
挥霍	她赢了100英镑, 都hui1huo4在买新衣服上了.	She won 100 and then splurged it all on new clothes.
排除	自杀的可能性已被pai2chu2。	The possibility of suicide was ruled out.
模样	在我看来, 凡是留须的人mu2yang4都很像.	Men with moustaches all look the same to me.
创业	她已chuang4ye4成为书商.	She has set up in business as a bookseller.
意志	他yi4zhi4坚强。	He has indomitable will.
典型	他们忍受著恶劣天气的煎熬, 表现了英国人dian3xing2的坚忍不拔的精神.	They reacted to the appalling weather with typical British stoicism.
城堡	该cheng2bao3控制著峡谷的入口.	The castle commanded the entrance to the valley.
居民	现在这里ju1min2的生活很幸福。	Dwellers here live a happy life now.
奴隶	这个nu2li4从未体验过自由的快乐。	The slave has never experienced the sweetness of freedom.
掩饰	她的微笑yan3shi4了她的感情。	Her smile masked true feelings.
腐败	fu3bai4的原因传布fu3bai4或腐朽的根源	A source of spreading corruption or decay.
隔离	根据社会工作者的建议把那孩子与其父母ge2li2了.	The child was taken away from its parents on the recommendation of social workers.
岗位	无论在什么工作gang3wei4，他总是有股子革命干劲。	No matter what his post is, he always works with a revolutionary drive.
对抗	这种新的传染病dui4kang4菌素有抗药性。	This new type of infection is resistant to antibiotics.
侄子	我的zhi2zi5都想帮我收拾收拾房子.	My nephews tried to make themselves useful about the house.
排练	pai2lian4常在戏剧制作早期进行的短暂的pai2lian4，如关于某剧或某角色的pai2lian4	A brief rehearsal, as of a play or role, performed usually in an early stage of production.
隐私	侵犯的就要侵入或侵犯，如yin3si1的	Tending to intrude or encroach, as upon privacy.
容忍	这种严重罪行今日是不能rong2ren3的.	Such enormities would not be tolerated today.
炫耀	这位医生颇为xuan4yao4地带着我们参观了他的医院。	The doctor showed us about his hospital with much flourish.
纯洁	她是一个chun2jie2的女孩。	She is a pure girl.
优先	从右边驶来的车辆享有you1xian1通行权.	Vehicles coming from the right have priority.
典礼	他特地为这一dian3li3空运来了鲜花.	He had flowers specially flown in forthe ceremony.
空虚	他妻子去世後他的生活很kong1xu1.	There has been a vacuum in his life since his wife died.
丁	我送她一束ding1香花。	I gave her a bunch of lilac.
铜	最好的导体是银，tong2居第二。	The best conductor is silver. Copper comes next.
祖国	我深爱我的zu3guo2。	I love my country with every fiber of my being.
团结	我们在这个问题上是tuan2jie2一致的.	We are solidly united on this issue.
场合	这样的便服不宜在正式的chang3he2穿.	Such casual dress would not be correct for a formal occasion.
嘴唇	他使劲儿把食物咽下去, zui3chun2都扭曲起来.	His lips worked as he tried to swallow the food.
品质	她最主要的pin3zhi4是善良。	Her most essential quality is kindness.
授予	新法令shou4yu3警察可以在街上截停任何人的权利。	The new laws empower the police to stop anybody in the street.
创作	去年是作曲家一生中chuang4zuo4丰收的时期。	Last year was a prolific period in the composer's life.
陷阱	债，是由人自己装设、自己置饵、然后故意自投的xian4jing3。	Debt is a trap which a man sets and baits himself, and then deliberately gets into.
演奏	他用小提琴yan3zou4了一首曲子。	He played a tune on the violin.
策划	这本书的作者是一个退休上校，他过去常参与ce4hua4间谍活动。	The book was written by a retired colonel who used to take part in cloak and dagger plots.
顾问	史密斯教授曾做过总统的特别gu4wen4。	Professor Smith served as special adviser to the President.
偏偏	我们正要去度假，他却pian1pian1摔断了腿。	He must needs break a leg just before we go on holiday.
规划	这个公社已开始实施一项重新整治河山的gui1hua4。	The commune has embarked on a program of reshaping its hills and rivers.
声明	他们不得不为了那条消息作出sheng1ming2。	They have to make a protestation of that news.
迹象	有ji4xiang4表明情况可能好转.	There are indications that the situation may be improving.
火箭	科学家利用计算机计算了huo3jian4可能运行的轨道。	Scientists have computed the probable course of the rocket.
真理	【谚】智者热爱zhen1li3，愚者回避zhen1li3。	Wise men love truth, whereas fools shun it.
武装	一群wu3zhuang1盗贼袭击了无依无靠的旅客。	Armed thieves descended on the helpless travelers.
目光	那个mu4guang1敏锐的警察发现了那辆被盗的汽车.	A ,sharp-eyed police officer spotted the stolen car.
堕落	他接受了尼采的思想，duo4luo4成法西斯分子。	He ate up Nietzsche and degenerated into a fascist.
光芒	幸福的guang1mang2从她的眼中散发出来。	Happiness radiated from her eyes.
阴谋	他泄露了他们推翻政府的yin1mou2。	He revealed their conspiracy to overthrow the government.
无知	【谚】知识使人谦虚，wu2zhi1使人骄傲。	Knowledge makes humble; ignorance make proud.
预言	算命先生yu4yan2我会同一位医生结婚。	The fortune-teller predicted that I would marry a doctor.
横	用绳子穿著的旗子heng2悬在街道上.	Flags had been strung up across the street.
石油	shi2you2的价格已经上涨了。	The price of oil has gone up.
仓库	他们管著三家工厂和一个大cang1ku4.	They operate three factories and a huge warehouse.
赌博	政府在制定新的法案以控制du3bo2。	The government is framing a new bill to control gambling.
边缘	她从球穴区的bian1yuan2轻击三次（以图将球打入穴中）.	She took three putts (ie to get the ball into the hole) from the edge of the green.
公正	我觉得我没有受到gong1zheng4的对待。	I felt I hadn't been treated fairly.
拽	抓钩，多爪锚一端有爪的铁矛，通常用绳子抛出并用来抓持和固定，尤指用于沿着边拖zhuai4和固定敌船的那种	An iron shaft with claws at one end, usually thrown by a rope and used for grasping and holding, especially one for drawing and holding an enemy ship alongside.
协助	一组护士xie2zhu4医生施行手术。	A team of nurses assisted the doctor in performing the operation.
勉强	他mian3qiang3答应下来了。	He gave a reluctant promise.
抵达	那次行进速度很快, 到中午已di3da2伦敦.	It was good going to reach London by midday.
蜡烛	他点燃了生日蛋糕上的小la4zhu2。	He lit the candles on the birthday cake.
引擎	你在发动yin3qing2时，一定要让汽车处于空档。	When you start the engine, be sure the car is in neutral.
机密	政府援引国家ji1mi4保密法以禁该书.	The government has invoked the Official Secrets Act in having the book banned.
放大	这台显微镜将物体fang4da4了100倍。	The microscope magnified the object 100 times.
斗争	他号召工人为争取自己的权利而dou4zheng1。	He called on the workers to fight for their rights.
井	jing3都乾了.	The wells ran dry.
金融	北京是中国的政治和jin1rong2中心。	Beijing is the political and financial center of China.
皱纹	他有脸突然又年轻了，紧张而恐惧的zhou4wen2暂时舒展开了。	His face was suddenly young again, the lines of strain and fear temporarily smoothed out.
统计	他们出示了一些tong3ji4数字来支持他们的论点。	They showed some statistical evidence to support their argument.
薪水	如果你们不是很熟的话，问别人xin1shui5多少是很不礼貌的。	It's bad manners to ask other's salary if you are not very familiar.
厌恶	我yan4wu4一切矫揉造作的行为.	I detest all affectation.
脱离	有一个省tuo1li2了旧政府而另组新政府。	A province has broken away to form a new state.
汇报	他因未对事故进行hui4bao4而受到委员会的批评。	He was criticized by the committee for failing to report the accident.
昏迷	他hun1mi2了几天, 但现在又（完全）清醒了.	He was in a coma for days, but now he's (fully) conscious again.
掩护	yan3hu4表面值得尊敬的人、团体或企业，实际上用阴谋或不法活动做掩盖	An apparently respectable person, group, or business used as a cover for secret or illegal activities.
衰老	疾病和shuai1lao3使她的模样变得认不出了。	Illness and age had changed her out of all recognition.
投诉	要正式提出tou2su4是有固定程序的.	There is a set procedure for making formal complaints.
一向	没有任何事干扰村里yi1xiang4平静的生活.	Nothing disturbs the peaceful current of life in the village.
投降	他们向敌人tou2xiang2了。	They surrendered to the enemy.
品尝	我津津有味地pin3chang2了我妈妈做的鱼。	I tasted the fish my mother cooked with relish.
器官	眼泪由上眼睑下面的qi4guan1分泌。	Tears are secreted by an organ under the upper eyelid.
颤抖	她的声音中能听出有些chan4dou3.	You could hear the quaver in her voice.
布置	老师给小学生bu4zhi4了假期作业。	The teacher gave the children holiday tasks.
掩盖	她编 造瞎话以yan3gai4事实.	She manufactured a false story to hide the facts.
标记	软件保护中，把不能复制的biao1ji4或签名存放在软盘上的方法，用一个特殊测试程序来检测签名是否存在，如不存在，则被保护的程序不能运行。	In software protection, a method of giving a mark, or signature, that cannot be duplicated, to a floppy disk. A special test routine detects if a signature is present, and if it is not found the protected program will be disabled.
颁发	英国第一台打字机专利证书是一七一四年ban1fa1的。	The first English patent for a typewriter was issued in1714.
圆满	别为几个差错着急，迟早一切都会得到yuan2man3解决的。	Don't worry about a few mistakes; it'll all come out in the wash.
群众	警方向qun2zhong4呼吁不要惊慌.	The police appealed to the crowd not to panic.
皇帝	将军推翻了那个国家的最后一个huang2di4，建立了共和国。	The general overthrew the last emperor of that country and established a public.
隧道	他们正在凿山建一条sui4dao4.	They are digging through the hill to make a tunnel.
悲惨	她听到这一bei1can3消息, 脸都白了.	She listened to the tragic news ashen-faced.
妥协	他们气得拒不接受对方提出的tuo3xie2建议。	Out of pique they refuse to accept the compromise offer.
奢侈	在旧社会，贵族们生活she1chi3。	In old society, the gentry lived in luxury.
鸽子	ge1zi5被放出去传送发生叛乱的消息。	Pigeons were sent out to spread the tidings of rebellion.
环节	开得好的钮眼是联系艺术与自然的唯一huan2jie2。	A really well- made buttonhole is the only link between art and nature.
潜力	如果贵公司愿意，我们将乐于提供样品，便于您向有购买qian2li4的顾客展示。	If you agree we shall be glad to supply you with our samples for you to show to the potential customers.
模型	他一块一块地装配飞机mo2xing2。	He assembled the model aircraft bit by bit.
验证	他想一切办法来yan4zheng4这个理论。	He tried in every way to verify this theory.
指责	各反对党zhi3ze2修建新机场是浪费纳税人的金钱。	The opposition parties have condemned the new airport as a waste of taxpayers' money.
实施	新法规下月shi2shi1.	The new law comes into force next month.
活该	如果他真地要你当众收回海口，那你也是huo2gai1；你本不该那样自吹自擂。	It serves you right if he did make you eat the leek in public; you should not be so boastful.
明智	一个ming2zhi4的候选人应该把传媒控制在手中。	A wise candidate should have the media in hand.
高潮	在圣诞节期间, 广告战已达到gao1chao2.	The advertising campaign reached a crescendo at Christmas.
忍耐	不到半小时后，他开始有点ren3nai4不住了。	After half an hour, his patience began to wear out.
发动	这辆倒霉汽车就是fa1dong4不起来!	The wretched car won't start!
别墅	他不惜工本为自己造了一幢bie2shu4。	He spares no expense in building a villa for himself.
曲子	他在用笛子吹奏一首老qu3zi5。	He was playing an old tune on his flute.
倾向	意向感觉、做或说的意向；qing1xiang4	A disposition to feel, do, or say; a propensity.
啃	他虽然ken3着苹果，但却很留神地监视着她的每一个动作。	Munching the apple as he was, he had an eye for all her movements.
功效	以提高gong1xiao4为依据可以证明采取这种措施是正确的。	Such action can be justified on the grounds of greater efficiency.
荒唐	这么冷的天不穿一件外套真huang1tang2。	It is absurd not to wear a coat in such cold weather.
动态	作为一名医生，詹姆斯必须了解医学的最新发展dong4tai4。	As a doctor James has to keep track of the latest developments in medicine.
唠叨	我女朋友lao2dao5着要我去理发，因此我今天终于去理了。只要能保持安宁，那还是值得的。	My girlfriend keeps on nagging me to get a haircut so I finally had one today; it was worth it if only to keep the peace.
误解	别wu4jie3我[我要说的话].	Don't misunderstand me/what I'm trying to say.
包围	他们出动军队bao1wei2了该城.	They have surrounded the town with troops.
以往	我们大家比yi3wang3更需要努力工作。	It is more necessary than ever for all of us to work hard.
极限	一种有ji2xian4或界限的量值。	A quantity that has a limit or boundary.
美满	要使婚姻mei3man3, 双方必须懂得互相迁就.	For a marriage to succeed, both partners must learn to give and take.
机械	那种新汽车因有ji1xie4缺陷只好撤出市场.	The new car had to be withdrawn from the market because of a mechanical defect.
保障	bao3zhang4社会的安全是警察的职责.	It is the business of the police to protect the community.
种族	我对zhong3zu2偏见深恶痛绝.	Racial prejudice is (an) anathema to me.
封锁	警方把建筑物的所有出口都feng1suo3住了.	Police sealed off all the exits from the building.
麻痹	她两腿ma2bi4.	She is paralysed in both legs.
确切	我不知道这个房间的que4qie4面积.	I don't know the exact size of the room.
奉献	在切斯特的主教主持下举行了新教堂的feng4xian4礼.	The new church was consecrated by the Bishop of Chester.
使命	开始执行一项危险的shi3ming4；她大学毕业后展开新生活	Launch forth on a dangerous mission; launched out on her own after college.
诉讼	su4song4记录法律案件中法庭su4song4程序的简要记录	A brief entry of the court proceedings in a legal case.
故障	这gu4zhang4数月来未引起注意.	The fault escaped observation (ie was not spotted) for months.
抗议	他们表达了强烈的kang4yi4。	They expressed a vehement protest.
检验	这种新飞机正在接受安全性能jian3yan4。	The new aircraft is undergoing safety tests.
季度	我们上ji4du4的煤气费异常高.	Our gas bill for the last quarter was unusually high.
视线	没有人敢把shi4xian4离开地面。	Nobody dared lift their eyes from the ground.
颇	他的妻子在那个群体中成为po1有地位的女子。	His wife has become a woman of some standing in the community.
描绘	他并不是他们所miao2hui4的那个样子。	He was not what they had represented him to be.
防守	步兵fang2shou3甚佳。	The infantry are defending well.
卑鄙	他bei1bi3地剥削穷人，要他们为他工作，却短付工资。	He dishonorably exploited the poor by making them work for less pay.
处境	雪崩发生的时候我们的chu3jing4多么危险啊！	What a precarious situation we were in when the avalanche started!
成本	他提高了售价以补偿材料cheng2ben3的增加.	He put up his prices to offset the increased cost of materials.
定义	根据ding4yi4,首都是一个国家的政治文化中心。	By definition the capital is the political and cultural center of a country.
铺	地板上pu4了一层水泥。	The floor has been cemented over.
裁判	那网球cai2pan4戴著遮光帽檐。	The tennis umpire wore an eye-shade.
企图	他qi3tu2收买警察放他一马。	He tried to bribe the police into connivance.
麻木	我给你打一针使这颗牙齿ma2mu4。	Let me give you a needle to numb the tooth.
伴随	反应减弱因不断接受条件刺激而ban4sui2产生的条件反射减弱	The decline of a conditioned response following repeated exposure to the conditioned stimulus.
侵犯	她投诉这些问题qin1fan4了她的个人自由.	She complained that the questions were an invasion of (her) privacy.
火焰	huo3yan4（从喷嘴中）喷出来了.	Flames jetted out (of the nozzles).
忧郁	这幅画上的女人脸上露出you1yu4的微笑。	The woman in this painting has a pensive smile.
指示	我认真地按zhi3shi4办事.	I followed the instructions religiously.
判决	法院准予公司有两周的延缓执行pan4jue2的时间。	The court granted the company a two weeks stay of execution.
辐射	在这次事故中，工人受到大剂量的fu2she4。	In the accident, the workers received a heavy dose of radiation.
运行	保养为保证正常的yun4xing2，状况，和修缮状况所做的保养	Maintenance in proper operation, condition, and repair.
相声	xiang4sheng5这种艺术形式让老百姓喜闻乐见。	Cross talks are an art form people love to see and hear.
丢人	你做的功课真diu1ren2, 重做吧!	Your homework is a disgrace: rewrite it!
瞄准	miao2zhun3指的行为或事例	The act or an instance of pointing.
支撑	帆下桁从桅杆上伸出的长杆，用来zhi1cheng1或伸展帆的下端	A long spar extending from a mast to hold or extend the foot of a sail.
原始	营地的生活条件甚为yuan2shi3.	Living conditions in the camp were pretty primitive.
正经	别浪费时间了我们还有zheng4jing5事要做。	Stop footling about, we have serious work to do.
团体	解放运动为某一个tuan2ti3谋求平等权利的运动；解放	A movement that seeks to achieve equal rights for a group; liberation.
地步	噪音快到我们无法忍受的di4bu4。	Noise is coming to the point where we can't put up with it.
作弊	我们大家都认为考试zuo4bi4是不对的。	We all consider it wrong to cheat in examinations.
抵抗	我们的部队仅受到表面上的di3kang4.	Our troops encountered only token resistance.
惊奇	我对在那儿见到他感到很jing1qi2。	I was surprised at seeing him there.
轮胎	这lun2tai1太硬，要减少一点压力。	The tyre is too hard reduce the pressure a bit.
枯燥	很少有老师能使学生对那些需要刻苦努力才能学好的ku1zao4学科感兴趣。	Few teachers are able to interest their students in dull subjects that mean a lot of hard work.
空白	我把表格填错了. 再给我一张kong4bai2的, 可以吗?	I've filled in this form incorrectly. Can I have another blank?
口音	从他的kou3yin1判断，他一定是南方人。	Judging by his accent, he must be from the South.
继承	她叔叔死後她ji4cheng2了财产.	She came into a fortune when her uncle died.
向往	xiang4wang3的目标具有强烈、执著的宗教信仰的目标和抱负	A goal to which adherents of a religious faith or practice fervently aspire.
极端	他的政治观点相当ji2duan1。	His political views are rather extreme.
额外	我们互相帮助做夏季的e2wai4工作.	We help one another with the extra work in the summer.
例外	我们大家都得参加跑步训练, 无人li4wai4.	We all had to take part in the training run, with nobody excepted.
预料	减价销售原来yu4liao4要持续一周, 然而实际上现在已经结束了.	The sale was supposed to last for a week, but for all practical purposes it's over.
扛	我看到小扬kang2着两把锄头从旁走过。	I saw Xiao Yang walking by, shouldering two hoes.
钞票	经检查发现chao1piao4是伪造的.	On inspection (ie When inspected) the notes proved to be forgeries.
先进	她的英雄事迹和她的xian1jin4思想是一致的。	Her heroic deeds sorted well with her advanced thinking.
款式	这种kuan3shi4的脚踏车是最新式的。	This type of bicycle is up to date.
打仗	他da3zhang4回来, 少了一条腿.	He came back from the war minus a leg.
自卑	大多数人都以他们最好的朋友的zi4bei1感为乐。	Most people enjoy the inferiority of their best friend.
通讯	政府设法干扰游击队的无线电tong1xun4.	The government tried to jam the guerrillas' transmissions.
性命	当知道他有许多敌人时，他开始担心他的xing4ming4。	Knowing he had many enemies, he went about in fear of his life.
手法	万勿对人类失去信心：要想到美国国内那些从未以卑鄙的shou3fa3欺骗过你的人啊。	Do not lose faith in humanity: think of all the people in the united state who have never play you a single nasty trick.
挽回	她由于向党代表大会做了有力的演说而wan3hui2了自己的声誉。	She redeemed her reputation with a powerful speech to the party convention.
焦点	争论的jiao1dian3是这个行业总的前景.	What's at issue here is the whole future of the industry.
委托	她wei3tuo1邻居照顾她的孩子。	She resigned her children to the care of a neighbor.
现状	改革是否改善了xian4zhuang4, 这问题仍有争议.	It's debatable whether or not the reforms have improved conditions.
终身	你肯定你想要他作你的zhong1shen1伴侣吗？	Are you sure you want him to be your partner?
难堪	他在聚会上竭力表现自己使她感到很nan2kan1.	She was embarrassed by his exhibitionism at the party.
纤维	直到一八八四年，第一个人造xian1wei2才制造出来。	It was not until 1884 that the first artificial fiber was made.
评估	重新ping2gu1重新估计或评价	A new appraisal or evaluation.
弱点	该系统的主要ruo4dian3之一是消耗大量燃料。	One of the main disadvantages of this system is that it uses very large amounts of fuel.
启程	如果能收到你们寄来的I－20表格，确认我已被录取，我随即qi3cheng2前往。	If you can send me the I-20 form indicating my acceptance, I can prepare to leave at once.
分裂	阶级差异会造成国家的fen1lie4。	Class differences can divide a nation.
颠倒	但是他的阶级本能使他把历史弄dian1dao3了。	But his class instinct led him to turn history upside down.
涉及	她对所she4ji2的钱数十分肯定.	She was quite positive about the amount of money involved.
挖掘	隧道，地道地下隧道或通道，如在洞穴内的或为军用、采矿而wa1jue2的地道	An underground tunnel or passageway, as in a cave or one dug for military or mining purposes.
无耻	他的wu2chi3行为受到所有人的谴责。	His base conduct was condemned by everyone.
信赖	他是我可以xin4lai4的那一种人。	He is a man on whom I can rely.
陷害	皮特好像设了狡猾的圈套要xian4hai4你。	Peter seems to have set a cunning trap for you.
雇佣	我们公司gu4yong1了大约一百人。	Our company employed about one hundred people.
干扰	政府设法gan1rao3游击队的无线电通讯。	The government tried to jam the guerrillas' telecommunication.
携带	在我们国家，xie2dai4枪支是违法的。	It's illegal to carry guns in our country.
慷慨	他的无限的kang1kai3深深地感动了我们。	His boundless generosity moved us deeply.
精心	jing1xin1制作的对众多部分或细节给予jing1xin1注意的计划或制作的	Planned or executed with painstaking attention to numerous parts or details.
丧失	没有什么能使他sang4shi1对人性的信心。	Nothing could extinguish his faith in human nature.
着迷	这人这么和蔼, 我立刻为他zhao2mi2。	The man was so genial, so I was drawn to him at once.
赠送	他们[他]写信表示感谢我们zeng4song4礼物.	They wrote to thank us/he wrote thanking us for the present.
级别	他的ji2bie2比我高。	He is above me in rank.
延续	地质学在此把人类历史的yan2xu4移交给考古学。	Geology here passes over the continuation of the history of man to Archeology.
含义	没表示否定, 其han2yi4可能理解为是肯定的.	Failure to say `No' may, by implication, be taken to mean `Yes'.
认定	陪审团根据证据作出结论, ren4ding4她有罪.	The jury concluded, from the evidence, that she was guilty.
摇摆	茅屋在风雨中yao2bai3。	The hut was shaking in the storm.
产业	实业家拥有、管理工业企业或对某个工业chan3ye4拥有实际经济利益的人	One who owns, directs, or has a substantial financial interest in an industrial enterprise.
情形	我们已注意到温度的波动qing2xing5.	We had already perceived how the temperature fluctuated.
君子	他才是个真正的jun1zi3：而对挑衅他能竭力忍着不动怒。	He was a real gentleman: he managed to control his temper despite the provocation.
言论	必须明确指出，部长的yan2lun4有两点是错误的。	Just for the record, the minister's statement is wrong on two points.
特意	这是我te4yi4为你生日而做的。	I made this specially for your birthday.
代理	我必须找一个人，在我离开期间dai4li3我的职务。	I must find someone to act as a deputy for me during my absence.
徘徊	别人回家后，他仍在学校外面pai2huai2。	He lingered outside the school after everybody else had gone home.
榜样	她的勤奋为其他人树立了bang3yang4。	Her diligence has set an example to the others.
新郎	我提议为新娘xin1lang2的幸福乾杯.	I should like to propose a toast to the bride and bridegroom.
弹性	振动在一个平衡位置附近一个粒子或tan2xing4固体迅速的直线运动	A rapid linear motion of a particle or of an elastic solid about an equilibrium position.
贪婪	她露出tan1lan2的表情。	She shows a covetous look.
统治	维多利亚女王的tong3zhi4持续了六十多年。	The reign of Queen Victoria lasted more than sixty years.
举动	他们的ju3dong4显然有贪污之嫌.	Their actions reek of corruption.
许可	通行证可以自由出入的xu3ke3、票证或权力	A permit, a ticket, or an authorization to come and go at will.
种子	大多数植物靠zhong3zi5繁殖。	Most plants propagate by seed.
遗产	那老人去世时留下二百万美元的yi2chan3。	The old man left an estate of two million dollars when he died.
时常	他shi2chang2带我妹妹去剧院。	He takes my sister out to the theatre now and then.
差别	这两种计算机价格没多大cha1bie2.	There's not much difference in price between the two computers.
之际	在你生日zhi1ji4，向你致以亲切的祝贺。生日意味着一个新的开端，意味着重新把握生活的机会。	Affectionate birthday greetings. Birthday means a new beginning and a new chance to take hold on life.
风光	这幅画表现了牛在溪边饮水的迷人的田园feng1guang1。	The picture showed a charming pastoral scene of cows drinking from a stream.
气味	他双脚散发的qi4wei4让人恶心.	His feet smelt revolting.
监督	我jian1du1工人把货物装上卡车.	I supervised the workers loading the lorry.
搅拌	把这油和漆搀在一起，好好jiao3ban4。	Mix this oil with the paint and stir well.
局面	我认为首相可能控制不住ju2mian4了。	I think the prime minister may be losing his grip.
束缚	他被家庭shu4fu4，不能再到处去旅游了。	He was fettered by his family and could not travel any longer.
报仇	她说她要向汤姆bao4chou2。	She said she would take her revenge on Tom.
资产	降低，划减zi1chan3帐面价值的降低	A reduction of the entered value of an asset.
激励	他对事业的热情ji1li4著他的追随者.	His ardour for the cause inspired his followers.
预算	我们的yu4suan4已削减到最低限度。	Our budget has been pared to the bone.
保养	这些机器需要经常bao3yang3维修。	The machinery requires constant maintenance.
转达	令郎喜结良缘谨此致以诚挚的祝贺并请zhuan3da2最美好的祝愿。	Sincere congratulations on your son wedding please convey our best wish.
肿瘤	医生给他打开胸膛并取出zhong3liu2。	The surgeon cut his chest open and took out the tumour.
融化	先把黄油rong2hua4, 然後加入面粉.	Melt the butter and then blend in the flour.
仁慈	他们对敌人很ren2ci2.	They showed mercy to their enemies.
功劳	我对他的gong1lao2评价不很高。	I don't rate his merits very high.
盲目	mang2mu4崇拜对某件事情的mang2mu4或过分投入	Blind or excessive devotion to something.
场所	藏污纳垢的地方肮脏的、令人恶心或道德败坏的chang3suo3	A filthy, disgusting, or morally corrupt place.
等候	他闪到一旁让那些deng3hou4的人过去。	He turned aside and let those who were waiting pass by.
发行	总统宣布将fa1xing2新货币。	The president proclaimed that a new currency would be issued.
抚养	我是在农场由姨妈fu3yang3大的。	I was raised by my aunt on a farm.
收音机	我必须找人把shou1yin1ji1修理好。	I must get the radio fixed.
呕吐	ou3tu4ou3tu4的行为	The act of vomiting.
讨好	因为他懂得如何tao3hao3老板，所以一再得到提拔。	He was promoted again and again because he knew how the rub his boss the right way.
敞开	透过chang3kai1的房门可以看见凌乱的厨房。	The open door revealed an untidy kitchen.
姿态	政府力图在这个问题上保持低zi1tai4。	The government is trying to keep a low profile on this issue.
散发	一阵烟空气、蒸汽或烟雾短促而突然的san4fa1	A brief, sudden emission of air, vapor, or smoke.
财务	我们遇到一些cai2wu4困难。	We met some financial embarrassment.
战术	俄罗斯队提出正式抗议，反对美国队的zhan4shu4。	The Russian team entered a protest against the tactics of American side.
妄想	急欲获得的wang4xiang3权力或荣誉的；嫉妒的	Covetous of power or honor; envious.
预期	女人比男人的yu4qi1寿命长.	Women have a higher life expectancy than men.
导弹	那枚dao3dan4落在离目标十英里的地方.	The missile landed ten miles short (of its target).
坟墓	掘墓者挖掘fen2mu4的人	One that digs graves.
生理	适应气候动物或植物在sheng1li3上对气候或环境的变化，比如光线，气温或高度变化的适应	The physiological adaptation of an animal or a plant to changes in climate or environment, such as light, temperature, or altitude.
不妨	既然大家都在，她bu4fang2把想法都谈出来。	Now that they were all there she might as well speak her mind.
遭受	他冷静客观地看著她zao1shou4的痛苦.	He watched her suffering with clinical detachment.
遗传	yi2chuan2与环境可以决定一个人的性格吗?	Do heredity and environment determine one's character?
苏醒	我su1xing3过来的时候是在地板上躺著呢.	When I came to my senses, I was lying on the floor.
棕色	那液体先变成绿色, 又变成zong1se4了.	The liquid turned green and then brown.
前提	修建校舍的计画是在增加教育经费的qian2ti2下拟定的.	The school building programme postulates an increase in educational investment.
开朗	米kai1lang3琪罗在大理石上雕刻.	Michelangelo carved in marble.
伪造	他们在支票上wei3zao4了经理的签名。	They forged their manager's signature on the cheque.
挽救	我们应该竭尽全力wan3jiu4濒于灭绝的生物。	We should do our best to save endangered species.
势力	反对[抵制]新政权的某些shi4li5仍然存在.	Pockets of opposition/resistance to the new regime still remained.
动静	哨兵奉命一发现有dong4jing5就立即开枪。	The sentry had orders to shoot on sight.
着想	人人为自己的利益zhuo2xiang3或行事。	Every miller draws water to his own mill.
贵族	高傲的，gui4zu2的以符合老爷或作为老爷的尊贵的、高贵的方式的或具之特点的	In a dignified, noble fashion befitting or characteristic of a lord.
习俗	战争迫使我们不得不违背旧xi2su2。	The war forced us to depart from the old customs.
民间	它常被用作治疗蛇咬伤的min2jian1药物。	It is often used as folk medicine to cure snake bite.
认可	官方的ren4ke3；同意	Official approval; sanction.
偏见	你作判断时要尽量做到不存pian1jian4.	Try not to be prejudiced in your judgements.
资本	反对党利用内阁的分歧而捞取（政治）zi1ben3.	The Opposition parties made (political) capital out of the disagreements within the Cabinet.
撤退	我们的部队che4tui4到既设阵地上。	Our forces retired to prepared positions.
称号	名称，cheng1hao4（用于区分的）名字或头衔	A distinguishing name or title.
跟随	参加打猎者打猎中的gen1sui2着一群猎狗的全体骑马猎人	The body of riders following a pack of hounds in hunting.
轨道	有多少颗人造卫星已送入绕地球gui3dao4?	How many satellites have been put into orbit round the earth?
细菌	许多疾病是由xi4jun1引起的。	Many diseases are caused by bacteria.
引导	把学生的兴趣尽力yin3dao3到理科方面.	Try to orientate your students towards the science subjects.
懒惰	她平时lan3duo4从她的考试成绩可以看得出来。	Her laziness showed in her exam results.
消耗	千瓦－小时电功率的单位，等于在一千瓦功率下一小时内xiao1hao4的功	A unit of electric power equal to the work done by one kilowatt acting for one hour.
扩张	19世纪末, 英国许多政客鼓吹kuo4zhang1主义.	Expansionism was advocated by many British politicians in the late 19th century.
蛋白质	你需要增加dan4bai2zhi4以增强体质.	You need more protein to build you up.
严寒	yan2han2使树叶凋落。	The cold withered the leaves.
将近	粉刷天花板用了jiang1jin4一整天的时间。	It took more or less a whole day to paint the ceiling.
赞助	那家剧院得到了艺术委员会的zan4zhu4。	The theatre is under the patronage of the Arts Council.
束	她剪掉了一shu4头发。	She cut a wisp of hair off.
跨	一步行走时kua4出的一步；一大步	A step made in walking; a stride.
调节	tiao2jie2tiao2jie2的行为或过程	The act or process of modulating.
司法	英国si1fa3运作的前提是被告在被证明有罪之前是清白的。	British justice works on the premise that an accused person is innocent until he's proved guilty.
故乡	他渴望回到gu4xiang1。	He yearned to return to his native land.
刹车	他听到汽车sha1che1发出的尖锐的声音，然后就摔倒了。	He heard a screech of brakes and then fell down.
缺陷	我们进行质量检验时，有que1xian4的产品均予剔除。	Imperfect articles are rejected by our quality control.
指令	处理这类案件的常规做法是请求法院发出zhi3ling4。	The general practice in such cases is to apply for a court order.
途径	通往成功的唯一tu2jing4是努力奋斗。	The only passport to success is hard work.
警惕	千万要jing3ti4呀, 我恳求你.	Be on your guard, I conjure you.
当场	他被倒下来的树击中，dang1chang3死亡。	He was hit by a falling tree and killed on the spot.
高尚	我的邻居是一个具有gao1shang4品德的人。	My neighbor is a man of highest virtue.
覆盖	校舍的屋顶上fu4gai4着积雪。	The roof of the schoolhouse is covered with snow.
责怪	该被ze2guai4的人是你。	It is you who are to blame.
迷惑	mi2huo4了数小时后，我最终弄明白了，并找到了答案。	After puzzling for hours I finally saw daylight and found the answer.
床单	我想买一个新chuang2dan1。	I want to buy a new bed linen.
体谅	你应该ti3liang5他, 因为他一直病著.	You must make allowances for him because he has been ill.
高峰	我不愿意在交通gao1feng1时间出去。	I don't like to go out during the rush hour.
充足	我们的身体需要chong1zu2的营养。	Our bodies need adequate nutrition.
忠实	那些zhong1shi2於她的人都认为她不会做坏事.	She could do no wrong (ie do nothing wrong) in the opinion of her devoted followers.
居住	这所房子不适合人ju1zhu4。	This house is unfit for human habitation.
电源	我们得等dian4yuan2接通後才能搬进去.	We can't move in until the electricity has been laid on.
酗酒	年轻人的xu4jiu3问题越来越严重.	Drink is a growing problem among the young.
拖延	演出tuo1yan2很久, 最後总算开始了.	After a long delay the performance finally started.
安宁	她那斩不断的思绪使她不得an1ning2。	Her haunted imagination gave her no peace.
不时	bu4shi2地，时常地；偶尔地	From time to time; occasionally.
家属	他的死讯已电告其jia1shu3。	News of his death was cabled to his family.
分散	这部影片fen1san4了我的注意力, 让我暂时忘记了这些难题.	The film managed to distract me from these problems for a while.
服从	士兵已训练得绝对fu2cong2命令.	Soldiers are trained to obey without question.
噪音	住在大街旁最大的缺点是zao4yin1。	The great drawback to living near a main road is noise.
容器	请给我找一个放糖的rong2qi4。	Please find me a receptacle for sugar.
仍旧	在你看来，停车时把汽车的保险杆部分突出在人行道上似乎是微不足道的，但就法制观念而言，这reng2jiu4是一种犯法的行为。	Parking with your car bumper overhanging the pavement may seem trivial to you, but in the eyes of the law it is still an offence.
赋予	上天既fu4yu3她美貌，又fu4yu3她聪颖。	Nature endowed her with intelligence as well as beauty.
占据	我部队在临河高地上zhan4ju4了防御阵地.	Our troops took up defensive positions on high ground overlooking the river.
生态	人类采用一切手段保持sheng1tai4平衡。	Mankind have been trying every means to maintain the balance of nature.
珍珠	第一只小鸟醒来了，男孩还能听见zhen1zhu1鸡在他的前边叫着。	The first bird woke and the boy could hear the guinea-fowl calling ahead of him.
氧气	植物可以吸收二氧化碳释放yang3qi4。	Plants can absorb carbon dioxide and release oxygen.
跳跃	（芭蕾）tiao4yue4在tiao4yue4中能跳到某一高度的能力，如在芭蕾舞中	The ability to achieve height in a jump, as in ballet.
沉淀	别摇晃瓶子, 要不chen2dian4就都搅起来了.	Don't shake the bottle or you will disturb the lees.
沸腾	牛奶fei4teng2得溢出来了.	The milk is boiling over.
合并	这两项实验的结果he2bing4在一起了.	The results of the two experiments were conflated.
推销	这家公司正大搞tui1xiao1运动.	The firm is big on extravagant promotion drives.
从容	肢体语言一个cong2rong2的、有力的动作或手势	A deliberate, vigorous motion or gesture.
谣言	他亲自露面使传说他死亡的yao2yan2不攻自灭.	His appearance in the flesh ended the rumours about his death.
乞丐	她连给最穷的qi3gai4一个便士都舍不得。	She will grudge a penny even to the poor beggar.
指定	他没有在zhi3ding4的时间在那里。	He wasn't there at the appointed time.
符号	有关各fu2hao4的意义请见左边附表.	For an explanationof the symbols see the key, inset left.
片刻	交通车辆不停的喧闹声使我们得不到pian4ke4安宁。	The incessant noise of the traffic give us not a moment's peace.
温和	这个孩子性情wen1he2。	The child had a placid disposition.
飞翔	我梦见我能fei1xiang2.	I dreamt (that) I could fly.
奔驰	看到一个乞丐跨进一辆闪亮的ben1chi2轿车我惊愕不已。	I am amazed to see a beggar step into a shiny Mercedes.
关照	这地区的警察都“guan1zhao4”好了没有？	Have the police in this district been taken care of yet?
财政	cai2zheng4不在我们这个部门的管辖范围之内。	Finance is not within the compass of our department.
拳头	他用quan2tou2猛击了一下桌子.	He struck the table a heavy blow with his fist.
外界	庄园周围有一堵高墙, 使他们不受wai4jie4打扰.	A high wall round the estate protected their privacy.
命名	这个小孩以他父亲的名字而ming4ming2。	The child was named after its father, given its father's first name.
视力	怎样解决shi4li4不好这一难题呢?	How do you cope with the problem of poor vision?
泡沫	水冲击在岩石上溅起了pao4mo4.	The water frothed as it tumbled down the rocks.
宣誓	士兵们xuan1shi4效忠于他们的祖国。	The soldiers swore allegiance to their motherland.
反馈	我们需要从消费者那里多得到些fan3kui4信息以提高产品质量.	We need more feedback from the consumer in order to improve our goods.
同胞	这个政治家在他的tong2bao1中不得人心。	The politician was unpopular with his countryman.
本能	鸟有飞的ben3neng2.	Birds have the instinct to learn to fly.
出路	弱者被逼太甚，也会进行抗争，你最好还是给她一条chu1lu4。	Even a worm will turn. You had better give her a way out.
挑剔	虽然助选团故意贬低她的作用，可是她以她的长才试行州长的想法，tiao1ti5他的理论，评论他的演讲，并且时常指出他竞选作业的弱点并予改正。	Although the campaign plays down her role, she is the talent that test-drives the Governor's ideas, punches holes in his theories, comments on his speeches and often identifies the weak spots in his campaign operation and helps get them corrected.
封闭	这条路因发生事故而被feng1bi4.	They've closed the road because of an accident.
注重	有些学校极zhu4zhong4语言学习.	Some schools put/lay/place great emphasis on language study.
埋怨	文德先生从来没有man2yuan4过。	Mr de Winter has never complained.
孔	他们用冲床在金属板上打kong3。	They cut holes on the sheet of metal with a punch press.
蚂蚁	ma3yi3的社会结构非常有趣。	The social order of ants is very interesting.
违背	实行国家控制是根本wei2bei4美国观念的.	Statecontrol is a very un-American notion.
音响	你的立体声yin1xiang3在哪儿？	Where's your stereo?
寂静	打破办公室内ji4jing4的，只有空气调节机呼呼的转动声。	Only the whir of the air conditioner broke the silence in the office.
回避	你不能hui2bi4在这一事件中的责任。	You can't retreat from the responsibility in this affair.
渣	焦炭zha1，煤屑焦炭或木炭做成后剩下的zha1滓	The refuse left when coke or charcoal is made.
贿赂	他看来是hui4lu4了守卫而逃跑的.	He had apparently escaped by bribing a guard.
识别	评估对人及事物的质量，价值，重要性或量的shi2bie2	Recognition of the quality, value, significance, or magnitude of people and things.
万分	我们焦急wan4fen1地等候医生做出诊断。	We waited in great suspense for the doctor's diagnosis.
不惜	我祖母bu4xi1花费地让她儿子念完了大学。	My grandmother at all price strove to get her son through college.
股份	一家美国的大联合企业持有该公司的大部分gu3fen4。	An American conglomerate holds a major share in the company.
体系	一种认为所有的知识都来自于最初的神的启示并由口传方式传播的ti3xi4	A system holding that all knowledge is derived from original divine revelation and is transmitted by tradition.
夕阳	xi1yang2无限好，只是近黄昏。	The setting sun had boundless beauty, Just because the yellow dusk is so near.
频繁	公共汽车pin2fan2地从城市驶往机场.	Buses run frequently from the city to the airport.
行政	xing2zheng4国家在行使其权力或义务过程中的活动	The activity of a sovereign state in the exercise of its powers or duties.
以便	我听音乐，yi3bian4在烦恼时得到安慰。	I found solace from troubles in listening to music.
起伏	由于温度qi3fu2不定，他们的测验结果很不准确。	Fluctuations in temperatures put their results oat by a mile.
智力	她十六岁, 而zhi4li4年龄是五岁.	She is sixteen years old but has a mental age of five.
防御	他们订出了该城的fang2yu4计划.	They planned the defence of the town.
口气	他的声音中带有权威的kou3qi4。	His voice carries the ring of authority.
阵地	我们的大炮已向敌人的zhen4di4发起连续轰击。	Our big guns have been hammering away at the enemy positions.
协调	新帘幕与地毯的颜色非常xie2tiao2.	The new curtains tone in beautifully with the carpet.
帐篷	有些印地安人仍然住在zhang4peng5里。	Some Indians still live in wigwams.
进化	在维多利亚时代, 许多人对於人是由低级生物jin4hua4而来的见解大为震惊.	Many Victorians were shocked by the notion that Man had evolved from lower forms of life.
隆重	我们的宴会非常long2zhong4.	We dined in grand style.
操纵	cao1zong4这台机器要转动这个把手.	You operate the mechanism by winding this handle.
签署	国王qian1shu3了逊位的文告.	The king signed the instrument of abdication.
犹如	这意外的失败you2ru2晴天霹雳。	The unexpected defeat came as a thunderbolt.
知觉	一剂乙醚几秒钟后就会使你失去zhi1jue2。	A whiff of ether will put you out in a few seconds.
巡逻	恐怖分子袭击了两名正在xun2luo2的士兵.	Terrorists attacked two soldiers on patrol.
以免	饭前不要吃糖yi3mian3影响食欲.	Don't spoil your appetite by eating sweets before meals.
权威	这位老人是小麦病虫害方面的quan2wei1。	This old man is a leading authority on wheat diseases.
扩散	她把一块石头扔进池塘里, 看著水的波纹kuo4san4开.	She threw a stone into the pond and watched the ripples spread.
当选	我特此宣布她已经dang1xuan3。	I hereby declare her elected.
挪	我是不是该把桌子往后nuo2?	Should I move the table back?
包袱	他希望去掉这个bao1fu5。	He hoped to get rid of the burden.
苍白	她病後显得cang1bai2、 清瘦.	Her illness had left her looking pale and thin.
便利	合作社（组织）由使用其bian4li4设施或服务项目的人共同拥有或管理的企业或组织	An enterprise or organization that is owned or managed jointly by those who use its facilities or services.
得罪	他de2zui4了上司，于是被解雇了。	He offended his superior and then was fired.
往常	他和wang3chang2一样努力工作。	He works as hard as ever.
壮观	国王加冕，典礼极为zhuang4guan1。	The king was crowned with great pomp.
边境	据说总统已经秘密逃往bian1jing4了。	It is said President has escaped to the border in secret.
注视	他全神zhu4shi4着这片金黄色的景色。	On this golden prospect all his attention was now fixed.
学位	在毕业典礼上，xue2wei4被正式颁发。	At commencement, academic degrees are officially given.
反感	他对新老板一见就fan3gan3.	He took an immediate aversion to his new boss.
交叉	那两条道路在那里jiao1cha1。	The two roads cross there.
砖	所有的窗户都用zhuan1堵住了。	All the windows were bricked up.
歧视	制造qi2shi4妇女和少数民族的人为障碍；人为的经济繁荣	Set up artificial barriers against women and minorities; an artificial economic boom.
正当	他提出这种要求，只能说是zheng4dang1的。	It's only just that he should claim it.
镇定	他点燃一支香烟，zhen4ding4一下情绪。	He lit a cigarette in order to calm his mind.
激发	他已经ji1fa1了全民的同情.	He succeeded in arousing the nation's sympathy.
通用	渐渐地, 这种货币不再tong1yong4。	Gradually, this kind of currency fell into disuse.
古董	这台洗衣机真是老gu3dong3了。	This washing machine is really a veteran.
陈述	几个证人的chen2shu4并不一致。	The witnesses' statements just don't agree with each other.
着手	我不知道该从哪里zhuo2shou3。	I don't know where to begin.
推测	是什麽促使你tui1ce4出这样的结论?	What made you conjecture that?
引用	政府正在yin3yong4某些措施来振兴贸易。	The government is introducing measures to revive trade.
玩弄	她在演讲时一直都在wan2nong4手帕。	She was playing with her handkerchief all the while during the speech.
采购	收成可能低于平均水平，请以同样价格再cai3gou4一些。	Crop likely below average will suggest renew purchase contract same price
为难	你一点也没让我wei2nan2.	You didn't embarrass me in the slightest.
严厉	对这些孩子的处罚过於yan2li4.	The punishments inflicted on the children were too severe.
罢工	老板同意向ba4gong1者做出让步。	The boss agreed to meet the strikers half way.
缘故	不知什么yuan2gu4，我觉得不能信任他。	Somehow, I don't feel I can trust him.
分泌	肾脏是fen1mi4尿液的器官。	The kidneys secrete urine.
拘留	法官命令把他ju1liu2两星期.	The magistrate remanded him in custody for two weeks.
麻醉	这人养成了服用有害ma2zui4品的习惯。	The man formed a habit of taking harmful drugs.
舱	住cang1区一个适合或被配给的住所或场所，如在军舰上配给军官和船员的	A proper or assigned station or place, as for officers and crew on a warship.
粗鲁	你争我夺是cu1lu3的行为.	It's rude to snatch.
实行	新的税收制度将于明年shi2xing2。	A new system of taxation will be brought into effect next year.
干涉	我用不著你来gan1she4!	I don't want any interference from you!
人工	ren2gong1渠道一种用于供应能量或运送圆木的敞开的、有水流通过的ren2gong1渠道或斜糟	An open artificial channel or chute carrying a stream of water, as for furnishing power or conveying logs.
风度	他没有feng1du4。	He has no style.
争议	事故的真正起因仍有zheng1yi4.	The exact cause of the accident is still in dispute.
迟钝	他有点chi2dun4, 但毕竟还能理解.	He's a bit slow but in the end he latches on.
兑现	银行直到签字得到了确认才dui4xian4了这张支票	The bank refused to cash the check until the signature was verified.
风趣	她的讲话不够feng1qu4.	Her speeches are rather short on wit.
传达	报告人把所要的chuan2da2的重点讲得非常透彻。	The speakers struck home the points he wanted to convey.
内在	一枚钱币的nei4zai4价值是造这枚钱币的金属的价值。	The intrinsic value of a coin is the value of the metal it is made of.
液体	ye4ti3表面渐渐地结了一层皮.	The surface of the liquid gradually crusted over.
层次	我已经注意到这幅画中色彩的ceng2ci4。	I have noticed the subtle gradation in colour in this painting.
羞耻	他毫无xiu1chi3之心，而且从不觉得内疚。	He had no sense of shame and never felt guilty.
占领	这座城市已被敌人zhan4ling3。	The city is held by the enemy.
修养	粗鲁的缺乏良好的举止，文化，或xiu1yang3的	Lacking good manners, culture, or refinement.
衷心	她向他表示zhong1xin1的感谢。	She gave him her heartfelt thanks.
祖父	在第一次世界大战中，我zu3fu4驻守在法国北部前线。	Grandfather was in the trenches during the First War.
书记	他赶回办公室，给王shu1ji5打了－个电话。	He hastened back to the office and rang up Secretary Wang.
报酬	我愿替你做这件事, 只消给我一点小小的bao4chou5（50英镑）.	I will do it for you for a small consideration (of 50).
特定	剂量需要产生te4ding4效应的疫苗、浆液、药物或其他剂的量	The quantity of a vaccine, serum, drug, or other agent necessary to produce a specific effect.
冲击	去海外旅行时，许多人会感觉到不同文化的chong1ji1。	Most people feel culture shock when traveling to a foreign culture.
晴朗	天气qing2lang3时, 从塔顶上能看到很远的地方.	On a clear day you can see for miles from the top of the tower.
收益	如果你想要一个人管好你的果园，并有所shou1yi4，那个园林工就是你要找的人。	That gardener over there is your man if you want someone to make your garden profitable.
清澈	qing1che4的水中映出蔚蓝的天空。	The clear water mirrored the blue sky.
捣乱	只要有几个爱dao3luan4的学生, 就能把全班搅乱.	A few disruptive students can easily ruin a class.
峡谷	这条xia2gu3里的景色非常美丽。	The scene is very beautiful in this glen.
上级	军人在未获shang4ji2军官允许的情况下擅离职守。	Be away from duties without the permission of a superior officer.
勤劳	诚实、qin2lao2和善良是幸福生活的要素。	Honesty, industry and kindness are elements of a good life.
合成	这两个定义可以he2cheng2一个呢, 还是必须分开?	Can these two definitions be conflated, or must they be kept separate?
目睹	我是记者, 在这一政治危机时期我是mu4du3一切的局外人.	As a journalist, I was on the sidelines during the political crisis.
不堪	这些艰苦的工作使我疲惫bu4kan1。	I'm worn out by all this hard work.
撤销	遵照你的要求我们已将建议che4xiao1.	In compliance with your wishes (ie As you have requested) we have withdrawn our suggestion.
理所当然	法律面前人人平等是被认为li3 suo3 dang1ran2的。	It is taken for granted that everyone is equal before the law.
发育	正fa1yu4的孩子必须睡眠充足.	A growing child needs plenty of sleep.
不禁	我bu4jin1也有同样的想法。	I can not help think the same.
疑惑	他的心忽然起了yi2huo4。	A doubt sprang up in his mind.
杰出	jie2chu1的在同类中显著的；jie2chu1的	Standing out among others of its kind; prominent.
揉	她正在rou2面。	She is kneading dough.
疲倦	那孩子又pi2juan4又烦躁不安。	The child was tired and fretful.
竞赛	她不但参加了jing4sai4--而且居然获胜了!	She not only entered the competition she actually won it!
首要	我建议，作为可行的策略、shou3yao4事务先行。	I favor as a practical policy the putting of first things first.
罕见	白唇鹿在这个地区很han3jian4。	The white-lipped deer are rare in this area.
模范	她是全班的mo2fan4.	She was an example to the rest of the class.
岩石	在软yan2shi2上形成许多深槽.	Deep grooves channelled the soft rock.
伺候	他像是想要人尽心尽力ci4hou5他.	He seemed to expect to be waited on hand and foot.
辜负	我们决不gu1fu4我们的父母对我们的期望。	We will never fail to live up to what our parents expect of us.
惦记	别dian4ji4我们--我们不久就和你们在一起了.	Don't bother about us we'll join you later.
品种	你能将这两个pin3zhong3区别开来吗?	Can you differentiate one variety from the other?
纠正	安以为我是苏格兰人，但我马上jiu1zheng4了她。	Ann thought I was Scottish but I soon put her right.
瘫痪	他身体有一部分tan1huan4了.	He is partially paralysed.
解散	集会jie3san4了, 我独自一人离去。	The party is dissolved, and I go forth alone.
搂	他们盖著毯子（在一起）lou3著.	They cuddled up (together) under the blanket.
局势	警方仍然控制著ju2shi4.	The police retained control of the situation.
成天	如果你们cheng2tian1游手好闲，就永远也成不了好学生。	You will never be good students so long as you goof around.
初步	草案chu1bu4的草案或计划，如工程或建议的草案	A preliminary draft or plan, as of a project or proposal.
当面	我太生气了, 我一定要dang1mian4告诉她我对她的看法。	I am so angry that I'll tell her to her face what I think of her.
丛	办公室前有一cong2玫瑰。	There is a rose bush in front of the office.
意图	他的行为很快就使她明白了他的真实yi4tu2.	His behaviour soon undeceived her as to his true intentions.
终止	你的合同已经被zhong1zhi3。	Your contract has been terminated.
光彩	她两眼露出幸福的guang1cai3。	Her eyes were sparkling with happiness.
恶化	病人的情况在夜间e4hua4了.	The patient's condition worsened during the night.
港口	这个gang3kou3每年货物吞吐量达1亿吨.	This port handles 100 million tons of cargo each year.
耀眼	一道yao4yan3的闪光，把人们的眼睛都照花了……紧接着轰隆隆传来一声巨雷。	And then there came a blinding flash… and hard upon the heels of it, a great tow-row of thunder.
圈套	他的许诺都是quan1tao4和骗局.	All his promises were snares and delusions.
免得	我们必须知道别的国家的习俗，mian3de2他们会认为我们是没有礼貌的。	We must find out the customs of other countries, so that they will not think us ill mannered.
盗窃	这一地区的入室dao4qie4案件似有增无已.	The number of burglaries in the area seems to be on the increase.
埋葬	自古以来该部落就把死者mai2zang4在这里。	From time immemorial the tribe have buried their dead here.
记性	她的ji4xing5很好.	She has a good memory.
渠道	湍急的水道这样一股水流的qu2dao4	The channel of such a current.
掐	我非常惊讶, 连忙qia1了自己一把看是否这一切都是一场梦.	I was so amazed I had to pinch myself in case it was all a dream.
近来	总统因jin4lai2被揭露涉嫌金融权益问题而成为丑闻的主角。	The President is at the center of a recent scandal over revelation about his financial interests.
步伐	那伙人踏著轻快的bu4fa2沿街走去.	The band swung lightly down the street.
劈	用于pi1，砍的工具，如锄头	A tool, such as a hoe, used for hacking.
驱逐	出租人可qu1zhu2不付租金的承租人。	The lessor can evict the lessee for failure to pay rent.
视野	这一经验为他的思想开阔了新的shi4ye3。	This experience opened a new prospect in his mind.
资助	公共交通应当受到zi1zhu4吗？	Should public transport be subsidized?
保管	他们出国时把家具送到仓库bao3guan3起来.	They've stored their furniture while they go abroad.
仪器	它至少能把沉重的yi2qi4携带到大部分大气团之上。	It can at least carry heavy equipment above most of the atmospheric mass.
特长	他从前写过一些成功的小说，但在最近的一部中他才真正充分发挥了自己的te4chang2。	He wrote successful novels before, but he really come into his own with the latest one.
开展	大学生们积极投入kai1zhan3反对核武器的运 动。	The college students are active to crusade against the nuclear weapons.
名誉	【谚】没有了ming2yu4也就没有了生命。	Take honour from me and my life is done.
牵扯	我不愿意qian1che3到这场学制改革的争论之中。	I don't want to get sucked into the row about school reform.
和解	双方并非在每一点上意见都一致, 但已达成he2jie3.	The two sides failed to agree on every point but came to an accommodation.
动脉	dong4mai4任何树枝形系统，将血液从心脏输送到身体各细胞、组织和器官的肌肉的，一种有弹性的血管	Any of a branching system of muscular, elastic tubes that carry blood away from the heart to the cells, tissues, and organs of the body.
依据	这一计画是以经济发展的设想为yi1ju4的.	The project was predicated on the assumption that the economy was expanding.
分辨	这对孪生子像得使人无法fen1bian4。	The twins were so much alike that it was impossible to distinguish one from the other.
后代	代际联系父母与hou4dai4之间亲密关系的形成过程，常常在孩子出生时就开始，是更深的感情联系的基础，影响着孩子的生理和心理发育	The attachment process occurring between a parent and offspring that usually begins at the time of birth, is the basis for further emotional affiliation, and influences the child's physical and psychological development.
口腔	唾液是由kou3qiang1的唾液腺分泌出来的.	Saliva is secreted by glands in the mouth.
蔓延	我们能做什么来防止这种疾病man4yan2呢？	What can we do to prevent the disease spreading?
报答	尘土受到损辱，却以她的花朵来bao4da2。	The dust receives insult and in return offers her flowers.
精确	jing1que4预言未来的事实际上是办不到的.	It is virtually impossible to predict the future accurately.
瀑布	水沿山泻下，形成一条pu4bu4。	The water formed a cascade down the mountain.
方言	个人语型，个人言语方式（变体）在所处的语言或fang1yan2环境中被作为独特的语言形式的个人语言	The speech of an individual, considered as a linguistic pattern unique among speakers of his or her language or dialect.
捕捉	影片bu3zhuo1到了医院里沉著而自信的气氛.	The film captured (ie described very well) the mood of quiet confidence at the hospital.
浸泡	把你受伤的手指浸在消毒剂里，把毒jin4pao4出来。	Dip your injured finger in the disinfectant to soak out the poison.
贫困	命中注定他得死於pin2kun4.	Fate had ordained that he should die in poverty.
黄昏	huang2hun1huang2hun1的较暗阶段，尤指晚上的这一阶段	The darker stage of twilight, especially in the evening.
狼狈	敌人lang2bei4撤退。	The enemy retreated in great confusion.
丰收	有些年我们获得大feng1shou1，有些年则收成很坏，但好坏你都得接受。	Some years we have a plentiful harvest, others a very poor one, but you have to take the good with the bad.
塑造	各种各样的影响有助于su4zao4我们的孩子们的性格。	Many influences help to fashion our children's characters.
领悟	他很快就ling3wu4到了其中的幽默，于是和大家一起欢笑起来。	He saw the joke quickly and joined in the general merriment.
当代	他是dang1dai4医学奇迹的活证明.	He is living proof of the wonders of modern medicine.
广阔	展现在我们面前的是一片guang3kuo4的土地。	A wide stretch of land spread in front of us.
平行	吊架一根从两根ping2xing2的绳子悬挂下来的水平的短棍，用于体育锻炼或杂技表演	A short horizontal bar suspended from two parallel ropes, used for exercises or for acrobatic stunts.
若干	我们大多数人必须为某种理由阅读ruo4gan1的资料。	Most of us have to read a certain amount of material for one reason or another.
吹牛	他说他如何如何赚钱，我就不太相信，我们认识以来他总是喜欢chui1niu2。	I don't believe all he says about the profits he is making; ever since I have known him he has liked to talk big.
答复	别支支吾吾，给我一个明确的da2fu4。	Don't shuffle, give me a clear answer.
迷信	我穿鞋总是先左後右, 我是很mi2xin4（这件事）的.	I always put my left shoe on first; I'm superstitious (about it).
原理	这个学期我们将学习社会主义yuan2li3。	We'll have a subject of socialist principles this term.
持久	医生无法解释高烧何以chi2jiu3不退.	The doctor couldn't explain the persistence of the high temperature.
威力	要想有效控制住犯罪活动, 就得加强法制的wei1li4.	The law must be given more teeth if crime is to be properly controlled.
期限	1979年这个qi1xian4临近了，最初支持平等权利修正案的一些州后来改变了主意，投票反对这个法案。	As the1979 deadline came nearer, some states which at first had backed up the Equal Right Amendment changed their mind and voted against it.
垫	他打开了灯，拍松了靠dian4。	He switched on the light and plumped up the cushions.
屈服	她是个勇敢的选手, 从不qu1fu2.	She's a gutsy player, she never gives in.
辛勤	与其说成功在于运气不如说是xin1qin2努力。	Success lies not so much as in luck as in hard work.
题材	讲解为了给…提供信息陈述或比喻性的说明，或对有难点的ti2cai2的解释	A statement or rhetorical discourse intended to give information about or an explanation of difficult material.
英勇	他在战争中的ying1yong3人所共见。	His valour in the war was seen by everybody.
定期	兼职音乐教师ding4qi1到校授课.	Peripatetic music teachers visit the school regularly.
慰问	听到这些我非常难过。请接受我最诚挚的wei4wen4。	Oh, I'm dreadfully sorry to hear that. Please accept my deepest sympathies.
标题	这几项应列在哪个biao1ti2下面?	What heading do these items fall under?
丰满	她（一点都）不喜欢人家说她feng1man3.	She didn't take (at all) kindly to being called plump.
立体	现在不是奢侈花钱买新li4ti3音响的时候.	This is no time to lash out on a new stereo.
打猎	那位猎人同意明天带我们去da3lie4。	The hunter agreed to take us to go hunting tomorrow.
花瓣	许多花的hua1ban4在阳光中绽放。	The petals of many flowers expand in the sunshine.
专题	关于这一zhuan1ti2，我打算只讲一个概况；我不想详谈细节。	I propose to give only a general survey of the subject; I shall not go into details.
发炎	我的淋巴fa1yan2了。	I've got an inflammation of lymph.
分解	阳光穿过棱镜时将fen1jie3成各种颜色。	The sunlight will break into different colors through a prism.
揭露	这名记者因为试图jie1lu4一个阴谋而被杀害。	The reporter was killed because he tried to expose a plot.
强制	强迫的表现出或倾向于qiang2zhi4的	Characterized by or inclined to coercion.
畅通	我再说一遍: 跑道尚未chang4tong1, 不能起飞.	I repeat: the runway is not clear for take-off.
吩咐	他经常按他妻子的fen1fu5去做。	He often does his wife's bidding.
水泥	shui3ni2地没铺地毯, 我的脚感到很凉.	The bare concrete floor was cold on my feet.
雕塑	尽管如此，最近一个现代diao1su4品展览会使有些人－－包括我自己－－感到吃惊。	In spite of this, some people including myself- were surprised by a recent exhibit of modern sculpture.
顽固	他wan2gu4不化把我气得火冒三丈!	His obstinacy drives me mad!
腹泻	肠毒素由只限于肠结胸的细菌而产生的毒素，引起呕吐和fu4xie4并导致食物中毒	A toxin produced by bacteria that is specific for intestinal cells and causes the vomiting and diarrhea associated with food poisoning.
衬托	在兰色天空的耀眼背景chen4tuo1下看去，山峰顶是灰色的。	The summit of the mountain is grey seen against a brilliant background of blue sky.
凡是	fan2shi4漂亮的男子, 她见一个追一个.	She runs after every good-looking man she meets.
钙	我有点缺gai4。	I have a slight calcium deficiency.
应酬	这位乡下姑娘似乎觉得自己从来就没能很好地ying4chou5她所交往的人。	It was as though the girl from the countryside never quite felt up to the company she kept.
昂贵	该药ang2gui4而影响广泛应用.	The high cost prohibits the widespread use of the drug.
腐烂	瓶子的封记已经fu3lan4.	The seal on the bottle has perished.
公告	官方尚未就总统的健康状况发表gong1gao4.	There has been no official pronouncement yet on the state of the president's health.
住宅	学校、教堂、zhu4zhai2、厂房均为建筑物.	Schools, churches, houses and factories are all buildings.
货币	大多数国家使用十进制huo4bi4。	Most countries have a decimal currency.
弥漫	房子里mi2man4著烤苹果的香味.	The smell of baked apples pervaded the house.
受罪	整个晚上无可奈何地看他们的家庭电影真shou4zui4!	Having to watch their home movies all evening was a fate worse than death!
作风	那种做法是她的特色；那就是她的zuo4feng1。	It is characteristic of her to act that way.
恼火	你弟弟小小的年龄竟高出你一大截，真令人nao3huo3！	How maddening to have your younger brother tower over you, at his age, too!
寄托	我把希望ji4tuo1在我们昨天得到的好消息上.	I base my hopes on the good news we had yesterday.
是非	他不懂shi4fei1.	He doesn't know the difference between right and wrong.
宪法	xian4fa3规定治理国家的方式方法。	A constitution lays down the manner and means by which a state is governed.
淹没	洪水把整个地区都yan1mo4了.	The flood water covered the whole area.
烹饪	他总是贬低妻子的peng1ren4技术。	He's always running down his wife's cooking.
雷达	突击队员在敌后来了一个突然袭击。摧毁了lei2da2站。	The commandos made a lightning strike behind enemy lines and destroyed the radar station.
比喻	她的文体中用很多bi3yu4。	Her style is rich in simile.
脉搏	他的mai4bo2跳得很慢。	His pulse beat slow.
解剖	她进行了首次jie3pou1後就改变了要当医生的想法.	Her first dissection made her change her mind about becoming a doctor.
风味	请试试这个巧克力。有三种不同feng1wei4的巧克力供应。	Please try this chocolate. There are three different flavors available.
刹那	我给你拍照的那一cha4na4, 你不要动。	Hold yourself still for a moment while I take your photograph.
出身	他chu1shen1于贫苦的家庭。	He comes spring in the poor family.
凑合	这一切cou4he5起来使我们的假期圆满过去。	Everything cooperated to make our holiday a success.
中断	我很忙，所以不得不zhong1duan4每周的访问。	I'm so busy that I have to discontinue weekly visits.
镇静	听音乐对她起了一种zhen4jing4的作用。	Listening to the music has a calming influence on her.
喇叭	开车的人在快要转弯时按响了la3ba5.	The driver tooted his horn as he approached the bend.
决策	这位部长为反对那项jue2ce4而辞职.	The minister resigned in protest against the decision.
陶醉	醉的，tao2zui4的因（仿佛）喝酒类饮料而兴奋或木然的；醉的	Exhilarated or stupefied by or as if by alcohol; intoxicated.
祖先	他的zu3xian1来到英国的时候是难民.	His ancestors had come to England as refugees.
瞪	他们全都惊讶地deng4着眼。	They all stared with astonishment.
制止	我们应当采取措施zhi4zhi3战争。	We should take steps to prevent war.
繁忙	看起来他似乎很喜欢大城市的热闹fan2mang2的生活。	It seems that he enjoys the hustle and bustle of life in the big city.
增添	增加工作不一定需要zeng1tian1人员。	More work does not necessarily call for more men.
证书	利息单证券上的代表一定数目利息的可流通zheng4shu1	A negotiable certificate attached to a bond that represents a sum of interest due.
涂抹	精制石灰胶泥精制石灰胶泥，用于在灰泥表层tu2mo3成膜	A fine lime cement used as a finishing coat on plaster.
恰当	从他的说法中得出这种结论qia4dang4吗?	Is that a fair inference (to draw) from his statement?
报销	他每次买汽油都记在bao4xiao1帐目上.	Whenever he buys petrol, he puts it on his expense account.
战役	我们在整个冬季zhan4yi4中始终不如对手.	We were outmanoeuvred and outfought throughout the winter campaign.
趣味	无qu4wei4的很少或不能引起兴趣或好奇心的；令人厌烦的	Arousing little or no interest or curiosity; boring.
蹦	箱子突然打开，从里面beng4出只小狗。	Suddenly the box split open and a puppy jumped out.
毅力	她是个聪明的姑娘，但缺少yi4li4。	She is a clever girl, but fails I perseverance.
全力以赴	现正quan2li4yi3fu4来解决这场纠纷。	Intensive efforts are being made to resolve the dispute.
适宜	这种肉已宣布不shi4yi2人们食用.	The meat was condemned as unfit for human consumption.
起初	qi3chu1谁都没有注意到小孩不见了.	At first nobody noticed the child's disappearance.
过失	我原谅了他的guo4shi1。	I looked over his faults.
压迫	人民受军政府的ya1po4.	The people are oppressed by the military goverment.
共和国	种族隔离制南非gong4he2guo2实行的一种官方的种族隔离政策，包括在政治、法律和经济诸方面对非白色人种的歧视	An official policy of racial segregation practiced in the Republic of South Africa, involving political, legal, and economic discrimination against nonwhites.
曲折	在前进的道路上，他们是一定会碰到qu1zhe2的。	On their way forward, they are bound to run into twists and turns.
一度	她yi1du4信仰社会主义, 但现已归真反璞像她父母一样投票支持保守党了.	Once a socialist, she has now reverted to type and votes Tory like her parents.
处置	在（文献）资料复制机中，感光材料曝光以后的chu3zhi4，以显现和保留图象。	In a document copying machine, the treatment of sensitized material after exposure so as to reveal and to retain the image.
小心翼翼	他xiao3xin1-yi4yi4地往后探身终于拿到了橱顶的那支笔。	He reached back carefully and got the pen on the very top of the cupboard.
盛开	他们沿着报春花sheng4kai1的河岸边走边聊。	They walked along the primrose bank chatting.
手艺	工作态度，工做品质，技艺工作或处理的方式、风格或质量；shou3yi4	The manner, style, or quality of working or treatment; workmanship.
书籍	图书馆最近增添的shu1ji2是一位百万富翁捐献的。	The library's latest acquisitions were donated by a millionaire.
手势	他使劲向我做shou3shi4, 可是我不明白他的意思.	He was gesticulating wildly at me, but I could not understand what he was trying to tell me.
担保	我们dan1bao3你在一日内收到.	We guarantee you delivery within one day.
走私	在一个雨夜，那个警察正巧碰上了一伙zou3si1犯。	One rainy night the policeman had a chance encounter with a gang of smugglers.
毫米	水晶石石英断片，直径4到64hao2mi3（0。16到2。51英寸），尤指天然圆形的石英颗粒	A rock fragment between4 and64 millimeters(0.16 and2.51 inches) in diameter, especially one that has been naturally rounded.
专利	那是我的zhuan1li4发明.	It's my patent.
损坏	这一事故把汽车sun3huai4得很厉害.	The accident did a lot of damage to the car.
消毒	发现斑疹伤寒以後, 医院的病房进行了烟熏xiao1du2.	The hospital wards were fumigated after the outbreak of typhus.
较量	在这一测验中你与专家jiao4liang4一下技巧吧。	Match your skill against the experts in this quiz.
棉花	印度向许多国家出口茶叶和mian2hua5.	India exports tea and cotton to many different countries.
畏惧	恐光症，光恐怖对光线不正常或不合情理的wei4ju4	An abnormal or irrational fear of light.
准则	惯例符合习俗的社会行为举止之zhun3ze2	The rules of conventional social behavior.
猛烈	暴风雨meng3lie4地吹过陆地和海面。	The storm blew fiercely over land and sea.
快活	今天你好像很kuai4huo5似的!	You seem very chirpy today!
茫然	这使他完全mang2ran2（而语塞）了.	It left him at a complete loss (for words).
局部	共沸混合物两种或多种物质组成的液体混合物，当在某种压力下被蒸馏或ju2bu4汽化时，在气体状态下和在液体状态下保留相同的物质的成分	A liquid mixture of two or more substances that retains the same composition in the vapor state as in the liquid state when distilled or partially evaporated under a certain pressure.
向来	警察xiang4lai2往车辆打信号，示意缓慢前行。	The police signalled the traffic to move forward slowly.
新陈代谢	药量已被减低到某一水平，既足以对付受感染的细胞，又不会干扰正常的xin1-chen2 dai4xie4。	The dosage was geared down to a level which would work on the infected cells but not upset their normal metabolism.
澄清	把酒搁在架子上放一个星期好让它cheng2qing1。	Leave the wine on a shelf for a week to settle it.
信誉	他的颠覆行为将使整个自由运动丧失xin4yu4。	His subversive action will give a black eye to the whole liberal movement.
野心	她的ye3xin1没有限度。	Her ambition knows no limit.
缺席	我弄不明白他为什么que1xi2。	I can't figure out why he is absent.
流露	他的言谈中liu2lu4著自满的口气.	There was a note of self-satisfaction in his speech.
排斥	妇女被pai2chi4于寺院之外使得她们很难过。	The exclusion of women from the temple made them feel sad.
推理	思考，tui1li3便运智力的行为过程；思考或tui1li3	The act or process of using the intellect; thinking or reasoning.
畅销	这本小说是去年最chang4xiao1的书之一。	This novel was one of last year's best-selling titles.
气势	这幅画给人总的印象是很有qi4shi4.	The general effect of the painting is overwhelming.
示范	店员（向顾客）shi4fan4如何使用洗衣机.	An assistant demonstrated the washing machine (to customers).
一帆风顺	她的生活到目前仍yi1 fan1 feng1 shun4。	Her life has run smoothly up to now.
扰乱	他铲起了一点土，非常小心，不去rao3luan4底下的任何东西。	He scooped out a little of the earth, being careful not to disturb anything that was underneath.
富裕	他出生在一个fu4yu4的家庭。	He was born in a wealthy family.
遥控	无人驾驶飞机无飞行员的yao2kong4飞机	A pilotless aircraft operated by remote control.
摩擦	刺耳的声音刺耳的碰撞声或mo2ca1声；不和谐	Harsh or grating sound; discord.
约束	非教派的不受宗教派别yue1shu4的或与宗教别无联系的	Not restricted to or associated with a religious denomination.
庞大	巨大的，pang2da4的规模巨大或大得出奇的；巨大的	Of enormous size or magnitude; huge.
条款	我不知道合同的正确tiao2kuan3。	I don't know the exact terms of the contract.
收缩	shou1suo1物shou1suo1的事物，尤指肌肉	Something, especially a muscle, that contracts.
股东	gu3dong1对公司的前景很乐观。	The stockholders are optimistic about the company's future.
谴责	我们不能单凭猜测就qian3ze2她。	We must not condemn her on pure supposition.
探望	我倘若知道她病了, 早就去tan4wang4她了.	If I had but known she was ill, I would have visited her.
平坦	找一处ping2tan3的地面放野餐的餐桌.	Find level ground for the picnic table.
审查	电影shen3cha2员坚持剪去影片的这一段。	The censor insist on excise the passage from the film.
北极	磁bei3ji2与磁bei3ji2互相排斥.	North magnetic poles repel (each other).
临床	lin2chuang2生物医学应用于lin2chuang2医学的自然科学原理，尤指生物学与生理学	The application of the principles of the natural sciences, especially biology and physiology, to clinical medicine.
慢性	酒精中毒由过量及习惯性饮酒而造成的一种man4xing4渐进的病理状况，主要影响神经及消化系统	A chronic, progressive pathological condition, mainly affecting the nervous and digestive systems, caused by the excessive and habitual consumption of alcohol.
化验	我看最好还是给你做些hua4yan4。	I think we'd better give you a few test.
支配	统治权一国对于他国之zhi1pei4权力	The predominant influence of one state over others.
点缀	他用欧芹的嫩枝dian3zhui4在鸡上。	He decorated the chicken with sprigs of parsley.
光辉	她眼睛里闪烁著调皮的guang1hui1.	Her eyes twinkled with mischief.
延伸	这条新的公路一直yan2shen1到我们村庄。	The new road reaches as far as our village.
和睦	协调，he2mu4作为一致的状态或性质；调和	The state or quality of being in accord; harmony.
坚韧	软骨性的有软骨组织结构的；坚固、jian1ren4而又有弹性的	Having the texture of cartilage; firm and tough, yet flexible.
卓越	爱因斯坦是一位zhuo2yue4的科学家。	Einstein was a prominent scientist.
侧面	盒子有顶面、 底面和四个ce4mian4.	A box has a top, a bottom and four sides.
加工	这家工厂将原油jia1gong1成汽油。	The plant converts crude oil into gasoline.
演习	军队正在进行沙漠作战yan3xi2.	The army is on (ie taking part in) manoeuvres in the desert.
首饰	金色铜一种由铜、锌和锡制成的合金，用于仿制黄金shou3shi4	An alloy of copper, zinc, and tin, used in imitation gold jewelry.
偿还	我负责chang2huan2他们为我而用的全部花费.	I undertook to indemnify them for expenses incurred on my behalf.
油漆	炎热的阳光晒得you2qi1起了泡.	The hot sun blistered the paint.
测量	第一次ce4liang2声速是在什么时候？	When did the first measurement of the speed of sound take?
安置	我an1zhi4孩子们去睡觉了.	I've put the children to bed.
无非	好多智慧的冠冕，wu2fei1是一只“成功”的金尿壶，摆着堂皇的架势而已。	Many a crown of wisdom is but the golden chamber-pot of success, worn with pompous dignity.
被动	这种句法结构不可与按规则变化的bei4dong4语态相混淆.	This construction should not be confused with the regular passive.
推翻	那政权被tui1fan1以後, 有一段时期是无政府状态.	The overthrow of the regime was followed by a period of anarchy.
殴打	他在足球比赛结束以後受到一帮暴徒的ou1da3。	He is done over by a gang of thug after a football match.
教养	我们都习惯於所受的jiao4yang3.	We have all been conditioned by our upbringing.
谅解	说起来这是件不客气且愚蠢的事。除非她道歉并得到liang4jie3，否则，她的心灵将是无法安宁下来的。	It was an unkind, stupid thing to say and she will have no peace of mind until she's apologized and been forgiven.
方位	恐怕我的fang1wei4感很差，因此我容易迷路。	I'm afraid I haven't got a very good sense of directions, so I easily get lost.
泛滥	河水fan4lan4（溢过堤岸）了.	The river overflowed (its banks).
先前	将数据恢复到xian1qian2已知或规定的状态。	The restoration of data to a previously known or defined state.
磁带	他向新闻记者讲了这次谈话的情况，却不愿把实况录音ci2dai4放给他们听。	He told the newspapermen about the conversation, but would not play them the actual tape of it.
呼吁	千百万人响应救灾hu1yu4而慷慨解囊.	Millions of people gave freely in response to the famine appeal.
可口	相当快；相当ke3kou3	Quite soon; quite tasty.
比方	我不是说她真在外层空间--这只是打个bi3fang5.	I didn't really mean she was in outer space it's just a figure of speech.
把手	我在黑暗中摸索着门ba3shou5。	I groped for the door handle in the dark.
就业	政府对国营和私营部门的jiu4ye4情况作了一次调查。	The government made an investigation of the employment in the public and private sectors.
轰动	他的辞职引起了相当大的hong1dong4。	His resignation made/caused/created quite a stir.
人为	公告某ren2wei2小偷	Post a man as a thief.
性能	这些窗户采光及通风xing4neng2良好.	The windows permit light and air to enter.
冤枉	我yuan1wang5了她，怎样才能补救呢？	How can I repair the wrong I have done her?
行列	植树的hang2lie4种植在一宽阔的草坪上的一排排的树或灌木	An arrangement of trees or shrubs planted in widely spaced rows.
微不足道	比率虽有下降, 但wei1 bu4 zu2 dao4.	The rate has fallen by an insignificant (ie too small to be important) amount.
界限	人们对这问题的看法超越了他们沿袭至今的政治jie4xian4。	Opinion on this issue cuts across traditional political boundaries.
传单	他们给客户散发chuan2dan1。	They distributed leaflets to customers.
敏锐	他是个min3rui4的观察家.	He is an acute observer.
原先	回到yuan2xian1状态在、到或向着从前的状态地	In, to, or toward a former condition.
储存	易腐的食物应chu3cun2在冰箱里.	Perishable food should be stored in a refrigerator.
职务	你必须熟悉自己的新zhi2wu4。	You must acquaint yourself with your new duties.
坠	微陨星微小的陨星颗粒，特指大量zhui4向地球或月球表面的微陨星	A tiny particle of meteoric dust, especially one of many that fall to the surface of the earth or moon.
形态	冰、雪和蒸汽是水的不同xing2tai4。	Ice, snow and steam are different forms of water.
歹徒	几天前，这些dai3tu2被逮捕了。	These bandits were arrested several days ago.
指标	为了加强数据的保护，防止非法的存取，用于评价计算机系统、存储空间和运行过程完整程度的一种zhi3biao1。	A term applied to a computer system, spaces, or operating procedures when considering the protection of data from corruption or unauthorized access.
设想	she4xiang3有一所带大花园的房子.	Imagine a house with a big garden.
考察	您能为我们kao3cha2一下市场前景吗？	Can you explore the market possibility for us?
辅助	附属物，fu3zhu4物附加于他物的处于附属或从属地位的物品	Something attached to another in a dependent or subordinate position.
诸位	我想我们今天的讨论大家都谈得差不多了。让我的秘书来送zhu1wei4出去吧。	I think that just about concludes our discussion. Let my secretary show you out.
慎重	宗教是一个必须shen4zhong4处理的问题。	Religion is a subject that must be approached with great delicacy.
堆积	如果我们不打扫房间，灰尘很快就会dui1ji1起来。	Dust soon accumulates if we don't sweep our rooms.
启示	先知先觉的人们自称在某个领域受过特别qi3shi4的人	People claiming to be unusually enlightened with regard to a subject.
反驳	她用一些尖锐的问题fan3bo2讲话人.	She came back at the speaker with some sharp questions.
部署	装甲部队bu4shu3装甲车辆的战斗部队，如坦克	The combat arm that deploys armored vehicles, such as tanks.
内幕	该杂志对防务nei4mu4的透露引起了极大的关注。	The magazine's disclosure of defense secrets caused great attention.
一贯	我想现在我明白你的意思了。如果你所说的“正直”就是我所说的“yi1guan4性”，那么我们刚才的争吵就是彼此误解了。	I get your drift now, I think. If you mean by""integrity"", what I would call""consistency"" then we've been arguing at cross-purposes.
闪烁	灯塔在远处发出shan3shuo4的光.	A lighthouse was flashing in the distance.
勇于	他十分勇敢, yong3yu2面对危险。	He is brave enough to face dangers.
相应	若生产成本增加, 则价格也要xiang1ying4提高.	If production costs go up, there will be a pro rata increase in prices/prices will increase pro rata.
贩卖	展示fan4mai4货物的地方零售商店中商品陈列和销售的部分	The part of a retail store in which merchandise is displayed and sales are made.
体面	他梦想着过ti3mian5的生活。	He dreamed of living in decent conditions.
酝酿	1938年欧洲yun4niang4著一场战争.	In 1938 war was brewing in Europe.
笼罩	经济衰退的威胁long3zhao4着世界。	The threat of an economic depression hangs over the world.
思索	优秀的学者“主动留心于”新信息，他们对读到的东西进行si1suo3，以挑战的精神对待它，融会贯通，使之成为自己的东西。	Good learners become""actively involved"" with new information.They think about what they read, challenge it, make it their own.
寺庙	我们沿着一条人迹罕至的小径到达了si4miao4。	We reached the temple through an unfrequented mountain track.
书法	她的shu1fa3有了明显的进步。	There's been a noticeable improvement in her handwriting.
抢救	qiang3jiu4那孩子的生命是英勇的行为。	Saving the child's life was a heroic act.
可行	很清楚，电动汽车在工艺技术上是ke3xing2的。	It's quite clear that the electric car is technically feasible.
让步	为了和平我们做出了rang4bu4.	We made concessions for the sake of peace.
公道	我不喜欢他，但是说句gong1dao4话，他是个好工人。	I don't like him, but, to give him his due, he is a good worker.
机智	ji1zhi4在于知道自己可以过分到什么程度。	Tact consists in knowing how far we may go too far.
边界	军队按时沿bian1jie4巡逻.	The army regularly patrol (along) the border.
摧残	寒风cui1can2了初绽的花朵.	The icy breeze nipped the young blooms.
分歧	你们消除fen1qi2, 言归於好罢.	Settle your differences and be friends again.
请教	这件事情你应该qing3jiao4你的律师。	You should seek advice from your lawyer on this matter.
冷却	不需水的，如一leng3que4系统	Not requiring water, as a cooling system.
规范	通信双方之间交换信息的格式和相对定时［同步］的一种gui1fan4。	A specification for the format and relative timing of information exchanged between communicating parties.
鞠躬	我们都向女王ju1gong1致敬.	We all bowed to the Queen.
补救	我怎样才能bu3jiu4我对她的冤枉？	How can I repair the wrong I have done her?
旗帜	示威者挥舞着qi2zhi4，呼喊着口号。	The demonstrators brandished banners and shouted slogans.
雕刻	匾额，铭碑，饰板被装饰或diao1ke4的平的薄板、厚板或圆板，用来镶嵌在墙上装饰或安在纪念碑上记载资料	A flat plate, slab, or disk that is ornamented or engraved for mounting, as on a wall for decoration or on a monument for information.
抵制	法律界人士对变革总是加以di3zhi4.	The legal profession (ie lawyers) has/have always resisted change.
设立	这个城市she4li4了关于莎士比亚的优秀论文奖。	There was a prize for the best essay on Shakespeare in the city.
淋	雨伞可以保护你不致雨lin2。	An umbrella will protect you from the rain.
展望	再向前zhan3wang4到本世纪末....	Looking farther forward to the end of the century...
遵循	在社会中生活就要zun1xun2社会行为准则.	You must adapt to the norms of the society you live in.
原告	法庭上yuan2gao4和被告双方都有各自的律师。	Each side of a case in court has its own counsel.
个体	异种移植术用外科手术的方法把某一ge4ti3或物中的组织移植到另一ge4ti3或物体上	The surgical grafting of tissue obtained from one individual or species to another.
航行	航空学飞机hang2xing2的理论与实践	The theory and practice of aircraft navigation.
敬礼	见面礼节礼节性拥抱，如问候或jing4li3	A ceremonial embrace, as of greeting or salutation.
挑衅	一系列的tiao3xin4事件导致了边境战争的发生。	A series of provocations led up to the border war.
前景	要把qian2jing3中的人物画得合比例.	Try to draw the figures in the foreground in proportion.
检讨	政府正在重新jian3tao3形势。	The government is reviewing the situation.
区分	你做的qu1fen1非常精细.	You are making very fine distinctions.
宫殿	这些宏伟的gong1dian4给外宾们留下了深刻的印象。	These magnificent palaces impressed the foreigners deeply.
堵塞	风把雪吹积成长埂, du3se4了道路.	The wind drifted the snow into a high bank, blocking the road.
竭尽全力	他虽jie2jin4-quan2li4，但仍然未能将那石头搬起来。	He failed to lift the rock in spite of all his exertions.
蒸发	即使灯泡中的空气被抽出，钨丝也会慢慢地zheng1fa1。	Even with the air pumped out the bulb, the tungsten filament slowly vaporizes.
文物	这件wen2wu4，接触空气之后，变成了粉末。	The relic, when exposed to air, turned to dust.
拐杖	那老汉拄著guai3zhang4一瘸一拐地走著.	The old man hobbled along (the road) with the aid of his stick.
捍卫	han4wei4性道德的运动正在转化成对持异议人士的迫害.	The crusade for sexual morality is turning into a witch-hunt.
反射	肌肉运动的协调；肌肉运动fan3she4	Motor coordination; a motor reflex.
粉碎	我痛苦地看着这个破得fen3sui4的花瓶。	I looked painfully at the vase broken into pieces.
董事长	dong3shi4zhang3假装他知道决算利润。	The chairman pretended he know the final profit.
事态	shi4tai4事情的状况；情形	A state of affairs; situation.
反常	兴奋增盛身体某个器官或部分对刺激fan3chang2或过度的敏感	Abnormal or excessive sensitivity of a body organ or part to a stimulus.
空洞	前一代人制造出来的kong1dong4理论，下一代人把它们打破。	One generation blows bubbles, and the next breaks them.
凝视	她坐着ning2shi4着窗外。	She sat gazing out of the window.
废墟	在fei4xu1中依然挺立着几根柱子。	Several columns among the ruins still stood upright.
隐蔽	伏击从yin3bi4地点进行的突然袭击	A sudden attack made from a concealed position.
告诫	我已多次gao4jie4过你不要做那件事.	I've warned you over and over (again) not to do that.
裁缝	cai2feng5给我量做新西装的尺寸。	The tailor took my measurements for a new suit.
融洽	她发觉很难与她的老师和同学们相处rong2qia4。	She finds it difficult to relate to her tutors and fellow students.
俘虏	敌国间交换了fu2lu3.	The enemy countries exchanged prisoners.
立方	三的li4fang1是二十七。	Three cubed is twenty-seven.
储备	chu3bei4物资可用的chu3bei4物资，被一群人共同分享使用的	An available supply, the use of which is shared by a group.
悔恨	他处于hui3hen4的海洋中。	He was in an agony of remorse.
辩解	他们为所发生的事进行了bian4jie3.	They explained what had happened.
树立	这座纪念碑是为了纪念革命烈士而shu4li4的。	The monument was built in honor of the revolutionary martyrs.
支柱	zhi1zhu4，支持物生命力赖以释放的动原	An agent through which vital powers are exercised.
纠纷	这场jiu1fen1根本不可能获得解决.	There is no prospect of a settlement of the dispute.
借助	jie4zhu4现代技术, 这个目标已经达到.	It was achieved with the benefit (ie help, aid) of modern technology.
惯例	guan4li4上要求这样的集会应当以祈祷开始。	Convention requires that such meetings open with prayer.
务必	wu4bi4把这些东西放对地方.	Be sure to place them correctly.
任命	他被ren4ming4为驻美国大使。	He was appointed ambassador to the United States.
探讨	这个问题不在我们tan4tao3的范围之内.	This subject is outside the scope of our inquiry.
垄断	该公司对法国酒的进口有绝对的long3duan4。	The company had the absolute monopoly of import of french wine.
舆论	公众yu2lun4正在强烈支持裁军。	Public opinion was moving strongly in favor of disarmament.
轮廓	lun2kuo4线，外廓线用于定义一形状或描绘一lun2kuo4的线	A mark used to define a shape or represent a contour.
辨认	这块地毯已经脏得bian4ren4不出原来的颜色了.	The carpet was badly stained, to such an extent that (ie so much that) you couldn't tell its original colour.
事项	待议shi4xiang4待做的事，尤指项目或目录清单上的一个项目	Something to be done, especially an item on a program or list.
平面	水晶一种具有晶体结构的矿石，尤指石英的一种透明形态，通常其晶面在同一ping2mian4上	A mineral, especially a transparent form of quartz, having a crystalline structure, often characterized by external planar faces.
开阔	偏狭的视野上不kai1kuo4的；狭隘和以自我为中心的	Limited in perspective; narrow and self-centered.
火药	huo3yao4易爆炸的混合物，如弹药	An explosive mixture, such as gunpowder.
渗透	水shen4tou4石灰石则形成洞穴。	Caves form when water infiltrates limestone.
柔和	那rou2he2的音乐对他是一种安慰.	The gentle music was (a) balm to his ears.
批发	pi1fa1商店大的，常从事pi1fa1业务的商店	A large, usually wholesale shop.
牢骚	我厌倦了你那没完没了的lao2sao1.	I'm tired of your unending complaints.
公式	gong1shi4计算语言的简称，应用不太广泛的一种高级程序设计语言。	An abbreviation for formula calculation language, a high-level programming language not too widely used.
洪水	这个村庄在hong2shui3泛滥时被淹没了。	The village was overwhelmed when the floods came.
鲜明	有背腹性的象大多数叶子那样扁平而有xian1ming2的上下表面的	Flattened and having distinct upper and lower surfaces, as most leaves do.
海拔	这座城市hai3ba22000米.	The city is at an elevation of 2000 metres.
供给	公司gong1ji3我一辆汽车.	The firm have provided me with a car.
坡	花园呈缓po1向河边倾斜.	The garden sloped gently downwards towards the river.
根源	犯罪行为的gen1yuan2是否始自幼时?	Are the seeds of criminal behaviour sown early in life?
生效	新的安全规则何时sheng1xiao4?	When do the new safety rules come into force?
盈利	本年度的ying2li4将与上一年度的亏损相抵.	This year's profits will balance our previous losses.
残疾	病人由于慢性病或can2ji2引起无能力的人	One who is incapacitated by a chronic illness or disability.
呻吟	有人听见他在shen1yin2.	He was heard to groan.
观光	我大部分时间都用在guan1guang1游览上了.	I spent most of my time (in) sightseeing.
踪迹	狗嗅来嗅去，搜寻zong1ji4。	The dogs cast about seeking the scent.
逼迫	任意选择[学校]的主意很讨好：允许父母送子女到任何住宅区里的任何学校，可以bi1po4成绩落后的学校改进。	The case for choice is appealing: by allowing parents to send their children to any school in any neighborhood, underachieving schools will be forced to shape up.
扭转	niu3zhuan3，扭曲扭动的动作或实例；压挤或扭曲	The act or an instance of wringing; a squeeze or twist.
周期	压缩zhou1qi1上述机器压缩过程的zhou1qi1	The engine cycle during which this process occurs.
采集	一位稀有昆虫cai3ji2家将给我们看一些他的最新发现。	A collector of rare insects will show us some of his latest discoveries.
冻结	政府已宣布要dong4jie2工资。	The government has introduced a wage freeze.
演变	这场讨论yan3bian4成了激烈的争吵.	The discussion deteriorated into a bitter quarrel.
眯	克林伊斯威特的特徵是他mi1mi1眼。	Clint Eastwood's trademark is his squint.
锋利	那把feng1li4的刀上把我的手指划了道小口子.	I snicked my finger on the sharp knife.
大意	他加了一个避免条款，da4yi5是：如果汇率下跌超过去5％，付款将被修改。	He adds a let- out clause to the effect that the payment will be revised if the exchange rate fall by more than5%.
熄灭	因停电所有的灯都xi1mie4了.	There was a power cut and all the lights went out.
截止	老板要求我们在jie2zhi3限期前完成	The boss is leaning on us to meet the deadline.
款待	感谢盛情kuan3dai4，已安全到达并转告关心此事的朋友。	Thanks for hospitality arrival safely inform friend regard.
敏捷	这个学生min3jie2的回答得到了老师的表扬。	The student's speedy answers were praised by the teacher.
大致	这些儿童在智力上da4zhi4相同.	In intelligence, the children are about equal.
书面	她已接获对她操行的shu1mian4警告.	She has received a written warning about her conduct.
支出	我的报销申请中包括 15 英镑杂项zhi1chu1.	My expenses claim includes 15 for sundries.
生机	这幅画充满着sheng1ji1，美极了。	The picture is instinct with life and beauty.
预兆	乌云是雨或雪将至的yu4zhao4。	Dark clouds are a sign of rain or snow.
飞跃	这是认识过程的一次fei1yue4。	It is a leap in the process of cognition.
种植	庄稼zhong4zhi2的植物或农产品，如谷物、蔬菜或水果	Cultivated plants or agricultural produce, such as grain, vegetables, or fruit.
颠簸	旧公共汽车沿著山路dian1bo3行驶。	The old bus bumped along the mountain road.
汹涌	船只在xiong1yong3的大海中缓慢前进。	The ship made slow progress through the rough sea.
贝壳	潮水退去，我们就能寻找bei4ke2了。	As the tide receded we were able to look for shells.
要点	老师要求我把演说的yao4dian3记下来。	The teacher asked me to note down the main points of the speech.
掀起	她xian1qi3毯子上床去了.	She turned down the blankets and climbed into bed.
台风	这个地区淹了水，这是tai2feng1时经常发生的。	The area is flooded, as frequently happens during the typhoon.
拧	这螺丝钉需要再ning2紧些。	This screw needs tightening.
断绝	这两个国家已经duan4jue2关系。	The two countries have severed their relations.
沉思	他chen2si1着过去的生活。	He meditates on his past life.
践踏	不要jian4ta4草地。	Don't trample on the grass.
搏斗	这房间里有bo2dou4过的痕迹.	The room bore evidence (ie showed signs) of a struggle.
样品	按此地址函索即免费寄奉yang4pin3.	Write now to this address and we will send you a free sample by return.
不顾	我们bu4gu4恶劣的天气而去钓鱼。	In spite of the bad weather, we went fishing.
政权	在新zheng4quan2下，事情将会发生变化。	Things will change under the new regime.
过渡	guo4du4guo4du4或变化，如人死后向精神存在的guo4du4	A transition or change, as to a spiritual existence at death.
笨拙	他是个ben4zhuo1的孩子，经常笨手笨脚地把东西摔破。	He was an awkward child, always falling over himself and breaking things.
皮革	羊羔pi2ge2用绵羊皮制成的柔软pi2ge2，尤其用来制作手套	Soft leather made from sheepskin, used especially for gloves.
密封	窗户四周泥的油灰mi4feng1效果很好.	The putty gives a good seal round the window.
成效	无结果的，无cheng2xiao4的不产生商品或有用结果的	Not productive of a good or useful result.
糟蹋	他往汤里放盐太多，把汤给zao1ta5了。	He had spoiled the soup by putting in too much salt.
精通	杰克是一位jing1tong1中国古代经典著作的学者。	Jack is a scholar steeped in the classics of ancient China.
照耀	太阳zhao4yao4着美丽的城市。	The sun shine bright in the beautiful city.
配备	各工种pei4bei4特定的工具。	There is a specific tool for each job.
急切	他ji2qie4地取食物，因为从黎明开始，他一直没吃东西。	He took the food eagerly, for he had eaten nothing since dawn.
否决	总统fou3jue2了削减税收的议案.	The President vetoed the tax cuts.
纵横	他把所有的时间都用在做zong4-heng2填字游戏和其他无聊的活动上.	He spends all his time on crosswords and other trifles.
山脉	这条路穿过两条shan1mai4之间的峡谷。	The road goes through a gap in the hills.
疏忽	他因shu1hu5被解除了职务。	He was relieved of his post because of his carelessness.
凝固	血液在她的膝盖伤口周围ning2gu4了。	The blood had congealed round the cut on her knee.
港湾	数百只小艇随同这艘班轮驶入gang3wan1.	Hundreds of small craft accompany the liner into harbour.
崇高	她以自己的名义支持这一chong2gao1的事业。	She has lent her name to the lofty cause.
分量	上次我去那家酒吧，喝的酒fen4liang5不足。	The last time I went to that pub I was given short measure.
预先	你若yu4xian1通知我, 我就能给您准备好了.	If you warn me in advance, I will have your order ready for you.
动身	他把东西装进箱子里就dong4shen1了。	He packed up his things and left.
吃苦	摆在他面前的是继续chi1ku3受罪。	Ahead of him lay the prospect of continuing hardship.
筹备	这部词典的chou2bei4工作已进行了多年.	Years of work have gone into the preparation of this dictionary.
胡乱	这种hu2luan4猜测甚嚣尘上, 已经到了必须立即解决的程度了.	Speculation has reached such a pitch that a decision will have to be made immediately.
探测	通道挖掘或tan4ce4而成的道路	A passage made by digging or probing.
文凭	对他来说，要得到那份工作，wen2ping2是很重要的。	The diploma is very important for him to get the job.
机灵	这个男孩非常ji1ling5，是我最好的徒弟—任何东西我只需教他一遍就行了。	He's as clever as paint, that boy, and the best apprentice I ever had—I never had to show or tell him anything more than once.
吃力	教他希腊文是很chi1li4的事.	Teaching him Greek was a painful (ie slow and difficult) process.
开支	别忘了仔细记下你的kai1zhi1帐目。	Don't forget to keep a careful tally of what you spend.
延期	由於技术上出现临时故障而发射yan2qi1.	The launch was delayed by a technical hitch.
陶瓷	釉上的，釉面的为涂在tao2ci2的釉上而应用或设计的	Applied or designed for applying over a ceramic glaze.
容貌	人人都羡慕她娇美的rong2mao4。	Everyone admired the delicacy of her features.
标本	解剖体，解剖biao1ben3已被解剖的东西，如被研究的组织biao1ben3	Something that has been dissected, such as a tissue specimen under study.
审理	哪位法官（将）shen3li3这案件?	Which judge will hear the case?
剧烈	这项宣布引起了ju4lie4的内乱.	The announcement led to violent civil disorders.
诽谤	她控告某报刊登fei3bang4性文字。	She sued a newspaper for libel.
容纳	rong2na4的数目不得超过200.	The number admitted must not exceed 200.
坚硬	金刚砂是非常jian1ying4的金属物质。	The emery is a hard metallic substance.
缠绕	我的未完成的过去，从后边chan2rao4到我身上，使我难于死去。请从它那里释放了我吧。	Release me from my unfulfilled past clinging to me from behind making death difficult.
充当	夫妻间应该偶尔（彼此）对调chong1dang1的角色.	Husband and wife should switch roles (with each other) occasionally.
扩充	他想kuo4chong1自己在这一行业的知识。	He wants to widen his knowledge of the industry.
反面	我们来抛硬币决定谁先走吧，你是要正面还是要fan3mian4？	Let's flip a coin to decide who should go first - do you want heads or tails?
显著	差别对比是xian3zhu4的。	The contrast is remarkable.
救济	jiu4ji4品很快被送到遭受火灾的灾民手中。	Relief was quickly sent to the sufferers from the great fire.
储蓄	老人把他的chu3xu4存在银行里。	The old man kept his savings in the bank.
草率	如果你不喜欢分配给你的任务，干脆不要做，而不要cao3shuai4从事。	If you do not like the assignment, just do not do them, but do not scamp them.
倒闭	在经济萧条期间，银行很可能dao3bi4	In a depression banks are liable to fail.
宽敞	这旅馆既不kuan1chang5也不舒服.	The hotel is neither spacious nor comfortable.
批判	他料到自己的作品总归要受到pi1pan4，所以总是以攻为守。	He's always expecting criticism of his work, so he's always on the offensive.
倾斜	斜向性向qing1xie2或与水平成角度的方向生长的倾向。用于植物的根、茎或枝	The tendency to grow at an oblique or horizontal angle. Used of roots, stems, or branches.
对应	函数两组元素一一dui4ying4的规则，第一组中的每个元素在第二组中只有唯一的dui4ying4量	A rule of correspondence between two sets such that there is a unique element in the second set assigned to each element in the first set.
贪污	tan1wu1腐败妨碍社会的发展。	Corruption stands in the way of the development of the society.
健全	他的迅速康复是由于他的jian4quan2的体质。	His quick recovery is ascribable to his sound constitution.
干预	当时若警方迟一些gan1yu4就会发生严重的暴力事件了。	If the police had not stepped in when they did there will have been serious violence.
坚固	桶贮存液体的jian1gu4的圆筒状容器；桶	A sturdy cylindrical container for storing liquids; a barrel.
专长	她把与顾客讨价还价看作自己的zhuan1chang2.	She regards negotiating prices with customers as her special preserve.
领土	他们把ling3tu3割让给邻国。	They ceded territory to a neighboring state.
归还	换个不甚诚实的人是决不会把钱gui1huan2的。	A less scrupulous man wouldn't have given the money back.
追究	这场火灾应该zhui1jiu1谁的责任?	Who is to blame for starting the fire?
杂技	我们今天晚上节目中最精彩的是中国za2ji4表演.	The star turn in our show tonight will be a group of Chinese acrobats.
譬如	咱们去参观一下这个地方，pi4ru2说明天或是后天去。	Let's go and visit the place, say tomorrow or the day after tomorrow.
急躁	他是那样ji2zao4，我简直拉他不住。	He was so impatient that I could hardly hold him back.
源泉	丰富的想象力；新思想的丰富yuan2quan2	A fertile imagination; a fertile source of new ideas.
条约	这项tiao2yue1可以认为是完全作废了。	The treaty may be considered to be as dead as a doornail.
倘若	我们的商号正处在紧要关头: tang3ruo4此番交易成功, 前途自无问题, 否则就要破产.	Our business is at the crossroads: if this deal succeeds, our future is assured; if not, we shall be bankrupt.
司令	早晨好，si1ling4，""她说，""今天您可真早。""	Good morning, Commander, "" she said. ""You're early this morning.""
留神	向导要我们特别liu2shen2，因为附近有响尾蛇。	The guide told us to look sharp because there are rattlesnakes around.
粉末	把fen3mo4洒在土里，让牛走过时把它们都踩进地里去。	Spread the powder over the earth and let the cattle trample it in as they walk over it.
格式	在编辑语言中，把若干值变换为由给定ge2shi4所规定的表示形式。	In programming languages, transforming values to the representations specified by a given format.
漂浮	piao1fu2物piao1fu2的物品或材料；piao1fu2物	Floating objects or material; flotsam.
协商	双方之间的任何争议都应通过友好xie2shang1来解决。	Any dispute between the two parties shall be settled by friendly consultation.
固然	她gu4ran2很好，但有必要那样大肆吹捧吗？	She was good, but was it any good to pour it on like that?
债券	发行公债，发行股票发起或创立的行为或事例，尤指流动股票、zhai4quan4或由流动股票、zhai4quan4支持的商业资金	The act or an instance of launching or initiating, especially the floating of stocks or bonds or the financing of a business venture by floating stocks or bonds.
对策	我队要求暂停，以便商讨新的dui4ce4。	Our team asked for time out to discuss a new plan.
无动于衷	任何人对她报道的饥荒情况都不可能wu2 dong4 yu2 zhong1。	It's impossible to remain unmoved by her reports of the famine.
构思	gou4si1这本书只用了五分钟，但写这本书却花了一年。	The conception of the book took five minutes, but writing it took a year.
间接	｀他说: 　我要来.　＇在jian4jie1引语中变成｀他说他要来.＇	In indirect speech, `He said, ``I will come''' becomes `He said he would come.'
变质	皮革受潮可bian4zhi4.	Leather can deteriorate in damp conditions.
充沛	chong1pei4，繁茂繁茂的性质或状态	The quality or condition of being exuberant.
孤立	他的gu1li4使他对别人的感情木然无知。	His isolation has made him blunt about the feelings of others.
沉闷	想到我们把所有的钱都花在儿子的教育上，而他却所想去一家chen2men4的工厂工作，我感到很伤心。	It breads my heart to think of all the money we spent on our son's education and all he wants to do is work in a dreary factory.
日益	到这时，罗马帝国已ri4yi4衰败。	By now the power of the Roman Empire was on the wane.
科目	物理和数学都是我喜欢的ke1mu4.	Physics and maths are my favourite subjects.
索取	别耽误了，现在就去suo3qu3一份免费的目录吧。	Don't delay. Write now for a free catalogue.
朴素	简单pu3su4的衣服适合在学校里穿。	Plain, simple clothes are appropriate for school wear.
藐视	我们miao3shi4习惯势力。	We are scornful of the forces of convention.
胆怯	一个军官作出如此dan3qie4的行为使整个团都蒙受羞辱。	Such an act of cowardice by an officer shames his whole regiment.
刊登	有些报纸kan1deng1出生, 婚姻, 死亡的通告.	Announcements of births, marriages and deaths appear in some newspapers.
诚挚	我向他表达了cheng2zhi4的问候。	I send my regards to him with earnestness.
粥	zhou1有益于消化。	Porridge is good for digestion.
宣扬	正做出努力来xuan1yang2总统在解决危机中的作用。	An attempt was made to play up the president's role in settling the crisis.
见解	这是我私下持有的jian4jie3.	That's my private opinion.
实质	精神上的缺少物质形式的或shi2zhi4的	Lacking material form or substance.
迫害	他在写一部关於其种族所受po4hai4的历史书.	He is writing a history of the persecutions endured by his race.
起源	拉丁语系, 例如法语, 意大利语, 都qi3yuan2于拉丁语。	The Roman languages such as French, Italian, are all derived from Latin.
响应	赶时髦的，新潮的对于流行的和时新的东西很敏感的并且积极xiang3ying4的	Highly aware of and responsive to what is fashionable and up-to-date.
平原	沿海地区的冬天天气暖和，可是相比之下中部ping2yuan2却异常寒冷。	The coastal areas have mild winters, but by contrast the central plains become extremely cold.
桥梁	文化交流是国与国之间建立联系的qiao2liang2.	Cultural exchanges are a way of building bridges between nations.
偏僻	邮车每周只到这个pian1pi4的村庄一次。	Mail comes to this remote village only once a week.
散布	灌木san4bu4在树林之中。	Bushes were interspersed among trees.
调动	diao4dong4或被diao4dong4的人，比如转到一个新的学校	One who transfers or is transferred, as to a new school.
贬低	他bian3di1她所作的努力（认为是浪费时间）.	He decried her efforts (as a waste of time).
公务	我们须在我们日常gong1wu4中建立一些制度.	We must introduce some system into our office routine.
大臣	这些问题揭发後, 有几个da4chen2辞职了.	As a result of these exposures (ie facts being made known to the public) several ministers resigned from the government.
致力	这位歌手终生zhi4li4于研究中国西北部的民间传说。	The singer devoted his whole life in study of the folklore in the northwest part of China.
枯萎	桃花蓓蕾ku1wei3了。	The peach buds aborted.
器材	保管员负责某个学校或学院队的qi4cai2和记录的学生	A student who is in charge of the equipment and records of a school or college team.
繁殖	圈著的动物fan2zhi2不好.	Wild animals don't breed well in captivity.
晋升	她不久就要jin4sheng1了.	She's due for promotion soon.
严密	被yan2mi4监视的这些囚犯昨夜越狱了。	The prisoners closely guarded escaped from the prison last night.
国防	guo2fang2开支可削减不得--那可是关天关地的事!	You can't cut spending on defence that's sacrosanct!
声誉	他严重损害了她的sheng1yu4。	He did incalculable harm to her reputation.
夹杂	照片之间jia1za2着新闻兴评论的文章。	The photographs are intermingled with news and articles.
惋惜	不知为什麽, 我有点为他wan3xi1.	I'm not sure why, but I feel kind of sorry for him.
阶层	税收使英国各jie1ceng2均感压迫。	Taxation bears heavily on all classes in Britain.
转让	她已签字把房子zhuan3rang4给女儿了.	She has signed her house over to her daughter.
波浪	bo1lang4起伏的显示短而杂乱的bo1lang4的，比如在海潮中	Exhibiting short, jumbled waves, as a tidal rip.
腐蚀	金属易为酸所fu3shi2。	Metals are eroded by acids.
庄严	为了能与这zhuang1yan2的气氛相一致，如果你能熄灭香烟的话，我将很高兴。	I would appreciate it if you would extinguish your cigarettes in keeping with the solemnity of the occasion.
合伙	他和弟弟he2huo3做生意.	He went/entered into partnership with his brother.
经费	我们如果要增加教育jing1fei4就必须加税。	We must increase taxation if we are to spend more on education.
妥当	我要是你就不参加了，他的计划似乎不tuo3dang5。	I should lie off if I were you, his scheme doesn't seem sound.
海滨	父亲想到乡下去，可是孩子们吵着要去hai3bin1。	Father wanted to go to the country, but the children were whooping it up for the beach.
衣裳	箱子里装满了yi1shang5。	The trunk was packed with clothes.
狭窄	他熟练地驾驶着汽车穿过xia2zhai3的街道。	He steered the car skillfully through the narrow streets.
辫子	她每天早晨都梳bian4zi5.	She braids her hair every morning.
化石	这hua4shi2可能超过二百万年了.	This fossil may be over 2 million years old.
投机	在南美的一些风险tou2ji1中他损失了所有钱财。	He loses all his money in some risky venture in South America.
审美	不懂艺术欣赏的缺乏艺术品位或shen3mei3情趣的	Lacking taste or interest in art.
恰巧	他打电话时, 她qia4qiao3不在家.	She happened to be out/It happened that she was out when he called.
眨	他会心地向她zha3了zha3眼.	He winked at her knowingly.
表彰	公司发给汤姆一笔额外奖金以biao3zhang1他工作出色.	The firm recognized Tom's outstanding work by giving him an extra bonus.
仓促	他未做认真的调查就cang1cu4做出了结论。	He jumped to a conclusion without careful investigation.
蔑视	她用mie4shi4的态度和我们说话。	She talked to us with a defiant manner.
流通	旧硬币已经收回不再liu2tong1了.	The old coins have been withdrawn from circulation.
钦佩	我很qin1pei4你这样巧妙地处理了这种局面.	I admired your delicate handling of the situation.
布局	在打印机或显示器中，一种用于控制打印或显示信息的bu4ju2或位置的控制字符。	In a printer or display, a control character used to control the layout or location of information.
商标	你知道这箱商品的shang1biao1吗?	Do you know the trade name of this box of merchandise?
愚昧	yu2mei4像个妖嫩奇异的水果，稍一触摸，就会失去其清新。	Ignorance is like a delicate exotic fruit: touch it, and the bloom is gone.
面貌	他的发现使我们的科学知识的mian4mao4为之一新。	His discoveries have put a new face on our scientific knowledge.
示威	shi4wei1抗议者驻扎在职业大楼之外进行shi4wei1的人或一群人	A person or group of persons present outside a building to protest.
垂直	耙一种由一个沉重的框架和尖齿或chui2zhi2向上的耙片构成的用于打碎并摊平犁过的泥土的农具	A farm implement consisting of a heavy frame with sharp teeth or upright disks, used to break up and even off plowed ground.
触犯	她的政治活动chu4fan4了法律.	Her political activities brought her into collision with the law.
沉着	她假装chen2zhuo2。	She affect composure.
众所周知	zhong4 suo3 zhou1 zhi1，他是有罪的。	It was apparent to all that he was guilty.
施展	他渴望当演员, 你就得容他时间让他shi1zhan3自己的抱负.	He desperately wants to be an actor, so you'll have to give him time to get it out of his system.
土壤	把幼苗移栽到含泥炭的tu3rang3里.	Transplant the seedlings into peaty soil.
尖锐	他被她那jian1rui4的问题弄得哑口无言。	He was struck dumb by her sharp question.
公认	他的行为没达到gong1ren4的标准。	His behaviour falls short of accepted standards.
焦急	我们jiao1ji2万分地等候医生做出诊断。	We waited in great suspense for the doctor's diagnosis.
裁员	公司被迫cai2yuan2, 恐怕我是其中之一（冗员）.	The company is being forced to reduce staff and I fear I'm a likely candidate (for redundancy).
叹气	在我现在看来，他那时似乎在tan4qi4，而我吃吃地笑是在隐藏我的尴尬。	It seems to me now that he sighed and that I tittered to hide my embarrassment.
大肆	好战份子da4si4宣传或欲鼓动起战争的人	One who advocates or attempts to stir up war.
名副其实	他发现任何一种学习都是ming2 fu4 qi2 shi2的苦差使。	He finds any kind of study a real grind.
盘旋	这架军用飞机着陆前在着陆跑道上空pan2xuan2了一阵。	The military aircraft circled over the landing strip for some time before it landed.
耗费	文书工作hao4fei4了委员会许多时间。	Paperwork consumed much of the committee's time.
斯文	孩子听了客人说的幽默话, 都si1wen2地笑了.	The children smiled politely at the visitor's pleasantries.
选拔	预赛，xuan3ba2赛确定比赛资格的预备竞赛或测试，如在体育运动中	A preliminary competition or test to determine qualifications, as in a sport.
结晶	盐是从海水中jie2jing1出来的，这被视为一种物理变化。	Salt is crystallized from sea water, which is known to be a physical change.
荒凉	月球多石的、huang1liang2的表面	The rocky, desolate surface of the moon.
亏损	这个公司今年kui1sun3巨大，有可能倒闭。	The company has made gigantic losses this year, and will probably be out of business.
向导	我们雇了个xiang4dao3带领我们翻山越岭.	We engaged a guide to show us the way across the mountians.
攒	他一点儿一点儿zan3钱直到够买一辆汽车.	He saved money bit by bit until he had enough to buy a car.
混淆	这个印刷错误造成很大的hun4xiao2。	This misprint led to great confusion.
叮嘱	我曾经ding1zhu3他不要和任何人讲这件事。	I had warned him not to tell anyone about it.
领事馆	该ling3shi4guan3已升格为大使馆.	The consulate was upgraded to embassy status.
密度	质量密集月球上的阴暗部，其内部岩石比周围地区的岩石的mi4du4大，因此产生略大些的引力	A mare on the moon having rock of greater density than that of the surrounding area, thus exerting a slightly higher gravitational force.
事迹	士兵的勇敢shi4ji4为他带来了荣耀和赞美。	The soldier's brave deeds brought him honor and glory.
恨不得	我hen4bu5de2我很富有.	I wish I were rich.
口头	老人给我们讲述了一个kou3tou2流传的故事。	The old man told us a story passed on by oral tradition.
以致	她那么傻，yi3zhi4被人嘲笑。	She was laughed at for being so foolish.
胸膛	子弹击中了他的xiong1tang2。	The bullet hit him in the chest.
中立	这个国家缺少一个能起作用的zhong1li4党派.	This country lacks an effective party of the centre.
浓厚	他经常说他对文学有nong2hou4的兴趣，其实这不过是附庸风雅而已。	He is always talking about his deep interest in literature, but it's just a pose.
衰退	若肾功能shuai1tui4, 可通过渗透作用使血液净化.	Blood can be cleaned by osmosis if the kidneys have failed.
传授	被chuan2shou4了初步知识的人已被引入或熟悉某一特定领域知识的人	One who has been introduced to or has attained knowledge in a particular field.
随即	他心脏停止了跳动, sui2ji2死亡.	His heart stopped beating and he died soon afterwards.
提拔	没有ti2ba2，跟钱有关的事一点好处也没沾上。	No promotion...no nothing as far as money go.
迁就	我不打算放弃我的假日来qian1jiu4你, 你不听也得听!	I'm not giving up my holiday to suit you, so you can put that in your pipe and smoke it!
殖民地	古罗马人在整个欧洲建立了zhi2min2di4.	The ancient Romans founded colonies throughout Europe.
水龙头	这shui3long2tou2好拧.	This tap turns easily/It's easy to turn this tap.
缺口	那囚犯从墙上的que1kou3处逃走了.	The prisoner escaped through a hole in the wall.
兴旺	商品交易xing1wang4.	Trading in commodities was brisk.
施加	我们应该对罪犯shi1jia1严厉的惩罚。	We should inflict severe chastisement on criminals.
摸索	我们mo1suo3着走过黑暗的街道。	We groped our way through the dark streets.
嗅觉	狗的xiu4jue2很灵敏.	Dogs have a keen sense of smell.
庸俗	现代的新闻工作，以“最yong1su2者生存”这伟大的达尔文式的原则来为自己的存在辩护。	Modern journalism justify its own existence by the great Darwinian principle of the survival of the vulgar.
托运	货物已由铁路tuo1yun4到你处。	The goods were consigned to you by railway.
诧异	惊奇的，cha4yi4的感觉或表达敬畏、钦佩、吃惊或惊奇的	Feeling or expressing awe, admiration, amazement, or surprise.
间隔	瞬间一个短暂的、不确定的时间jian4ge2	A brief, indefinite interval of time.
主权	zhu3quan2，统治管辖或统治，尤指英国对印度的统治（1757－1947年）	Dominion or rule, especially the British rule over India(1757-1947).
打量	他上下da3liang5我。	He looked me up and down.
接连	jie1lian2听了几个小时的背景音乐，使我觉得昏昏沉沉。	Incessant background music makes me punch-drunk after a couple of hours.
修建	有两座新房子正在xiu1jian4。	There are two new houses under construction.
著作	这位新闻记者的zhu4zuo4很受年轻人的欢迎。	This journalist's works are popular among young people.
田野	农民们正在tian2ye3里收割稻子。	The peasants are harvesting rice in the field.
飘扬	旗帜迎风piao1yang2。	A flag ruffled in the breeze.
腐朽	那个fu3xiu3的傀儡政权正在土崩瓦解。	The decadent puppet regime was falling apart.
直径	密耳长度单位，等于一英寸的千分之一（10－3）（0。0254毫米），如用来标明电线的zhi2jing4或按页出售的材料的厚度	A unit of length equal to one thousandth(10-3) of an inch(0.0254 millimeter), used, for example, to specify the diameter of wire or the thickness of materials sold in sheets.
要素	元素，基本yao4su4一个组合整体中的基本的、最主要的、不可再缩小的组成成分	A fundamental, essential, or irreducible constituent of a composite entity.
变迁	时髦花样的bian4qian1，是穷人的辛勤对有钱人的虚荣征收的税款。	Change in fashion is the tax which the industry of the poor levi on the vanity of the rich.
课题	他从事于物理研究／这一ke4ti2许多年了。	He has worked at physics/the topic for many years.
濒临	再过几天，这家公司就将bin1lin2破产的边缘。	A few more days, and the company will be on the verge of bankruptcy.
附属	她已调到fu4shu3建筑的办事处去了.	She's been shunted off to an office in the annexe.
派遣	我们新pai4qian3一组护理人员开赴受灾最重的地区.	We're sending a fresh draft of nurses to the worst hit area.
胡须	他刮hu2xu1时割破了脸.	He cut himself/his face shaving.
失事	shi1shi4的火车横在铁轨上.	The wrecked train lay aslant the track.
薄弱	你的论点太bo2ruo4了，说服不了我。	Your argument is too weak to convince me.
普及	发明了印刷术后文化教育才得以pu3ji2。	Mass literacy was only possible after the invention of printing.
庄稼	农场主雇佣3名工人收割zhuang1jia5。	The farmer paid 3 laborers to gather the crop.
停顿	由於罢工生产逐渐ting2dun4下来。	The strike brought industry grinding to a halt.
断定	我确实没法duan4ding4。	I really couldn't tell.
管辖	警察分局位于管区内并对其行使guan3xia2权的警察局	The police station situated in and having jurisdiction over such a district.
废除	fei4chu2农奴制度后，农奴们获得了解放。	The serfs were liberated after abolishing serfdom.
二氧化碳	er4yang3hua4tan4是由碳和氧组成的。	Carbon dioxide consists of carbon and oxygen.
创立	一位美国大学校长曾经评论说爱因斯坦chuang4li4了一种新的观点，即一种新的宇宙观。	An American university president once commented that Einstein has created a new outlook, a new view of the universe.
高超	我们都称赞了她烹饪技术的gao1chao1。	We all praised the excellence of her cooking.
溶解	倒杯水把药片放进去rong2jie3了.	Fill a glass with water and dissolve this tablet in it.
寒暄	在城里生活的人往往忙碌得连han2xuan1都顾不上。	People who live in towns are often too busy to pass the time of day.
未免	试图说服他wei4mian3太愚蠢了。	It is a great folly to try to persuade him.
窜	一只狐狸从灌木丛中cuan4了出来。	A fox dart out of the midst of the thicket.
牢固	攀登的人脚踩的地方要很lao2gu4.	A climber needs secure footholds.
迟疑	犹豫chi2yi2不决的状态或chi2yi2不决的性质	The state or quality of being hesitant.
情理	原子能应该为了和平的目的而使用，这是合乎qing2li3的。	It is desirable that atomic energy should be used for peaceful purpose.
迎面	汽车ying2mian4撞到树上.	The car hit the tree head-on.
理睬	我没有li3cai3对方的嘲笑。	I ignored the taunts of the opposition.
礼节	我们应该遵守li3jie2。	We should observe the proprieties.
高涨	选举日期临近, 人们情绪很gao1zhang3.	Passions ran high as the election approached.
英明	领导做了ying1ming2的决定。	The leader made a sagacious decision.
严峻	最严重的最yan2jun4的或最不利的	Most severe or unfavorable.
公然	他对你说他没有结婚，他是在gong1ran2说谎。	He was lying in his throat when he told you he was not married.
剥削	在旧社会工人农民是被bo1xue1的阶级。	Is the old society worker and farmer is exploited class.
起草	他qi3cao3了一份讲话的概要。	He drew up a brief for his speech.
肖像	他的xiao4xiang4挂在壁炉的上方.	His portrait (was) hung above the fireplace.
治理	这个国家一直zhi4li3得不错。	The country has always had fair government.
考核	有多少受训的飞行员没有通过上次kao3he2而被淘汰？	How many pilots in training were washed out in the last examination?
滔滔不绝	她说话tao1tao1-bu4jue2, 我们都插不上嘴.	She talks so much that the rest of us never get a look-in.
捎	拜托您shao1个信儿给他。	Would you be kind enough to take a message to him?
灵敏	欣赏意识或ling2min3的感知力，尤其指审美品质或价值	Awareness or delicate perception, especially of aesthetic qualities or values.
物资	无论如何, 医疗wu4zi1会在一周内到达。	At any rate, the medical supplies will reach you within a week.
响亮	该建议获得一个xiang3liang4的“反对”票。	The proposal receive a resounding""no"" vote.
含糊	模糊的不清楚的或者不明显的；han2hu5的或者朦胧的	Lacking clarity or distinctness; cloudy or obscure.
培育	在党的pei2yu4下，他已成长为一个优秀的战士。	Nurtured by the Party, he grown into a good fighter.
承办	cheng2ban4殡葬者准备埋葬尸体。	The corpse was laid out by the undertaker.
喧哗	老师走进教室时，男孩子们停止xuan1hua2。	The boys stopped their clatter when the teacher came into the classroom.
上游	我的家乡在这条河的shang4you2地区。	My hometown is in the upper reaches of the river.
调解	既然雇主们同工会领袖无法在直接谈判中达成协议，就指定了一位当地的名律师进行tiao2jie3。	A well-known local lawyer has been appointed to mediate between the employers and the union leaders, since they can't reach an agreement in direct talks.
框架	模子一种kuang4jia4或模型在其周围或在其上某物被塑造或成形	A frame or model around or on which something is formed or shaped.
嘱咐	我已zhu3fu4过你离那些粗野的男孩远点儿。	I've told you to stop away from those rough boys.
悬挂	那盏灯xuan2gua4在桌子上方。	The lamp hung over the table.
杜绝	他们du4jue2了这些坏事。	They put a stop to the evils.
摄氏度	七月份最高温度可能达到36She4shi4du4。	The maximum temperature in July may be 36 Celsius degree.
体积	容积，ti3ji1大小、ti3ji1或容积，常指很大时	Size, mass, or volume, especially when very large.
传记	讣闻死亡后发表的通告，有时附有死者简要zhuan4ji4	A published notice of a death, sometimes with a brief biography of the deceased.
拥护	民意测验表明yong1hu4社会党的情绪高涨.	Opinion polls have detected a ground swell of support for the Socialists.
压缩	羽毛被的厚度填满了ya1suo1绝缘材料的某种物品的厚度，如尼龙被	The thickness of an item, such as a down comforter, that is filled with compressible insulating material.
哆嗦	他吓得直duo1suo5，就好像看见了鬼一样。	He was shaking with fright as if he had seen a ghost.
瓦解	这个联盟会很快wa3jie3，除非采取措施加强它的团结。	The alliance will soon disintegrate unless something is done to pull it together.
零星	他把大部分东西都搬走了，只留下一些ling2xing1杂物。	He's moved most of his stuff, there are just a few odds and ends left.
无微不至	旅馆工作人员对我们照顾得wu2 wei1 bu4 zhi4，尽量让我们住得舒适，	The hotel staff spared no pains to ensure that our stay was as enjoyable as possible.
霞	傍晚的云xia2绚丽多彩。	In the evening the rosy clouds were gorgeous.
品德	一个人的伟大与其说是由他的财富来判断，倒不如说是由他的pin3de2来判断。	One's greatness lies not so much in his wealth as in his character.
想方设法	这样，我9岁就挑起了家庭的重担。我xiang3fang1-she4fa3，干各种杂活，养家活口。	So I was a bread winner when I was nine. I did odds and sods to get things by any means.
四肢	他粗糙的双手，被太阳哂得发黑的健壮si4zhi1，均表明他十分辛勤，非常耐劳。	His hard hands and sinewy sunburnt limbs told of labor and endurance.
严禁	政府拟采取措施yan2jin4在足球比赛中闹事。	The Government intends to clamp down on soccer hooliganism.
散文	她的san3wen2过於矫揉造作.	Her prose is far too mannered and self-conscious.
新颖	如果那么你们能生产品质这么优良款式有xin1ying3的鞋子，它们在我们市场上将会大受欢迎。	If you can produce fashionable styles of such fine quality, your shoes will win great popularity in our market.
领会	被误解的被错误地理解或错误地ling3hui4的	Incorrectly understood or interpreted.
可观	他带我到他的藏书室，里面的藏书虽然杂乱无章，数量却相当ke3guan1。	He took me into his library, a littery but considerable collection.
坚实	那座城堡建筑在jian1shi2的岩石上。	The castle is founded on solid rock.
航天	这种材料的生产是hang2tian1工业发展的结果.	The manufactureof this material is an outgrowth of the space industry.
连同	这些新的事实lian2tong2其他证据已证明在押者无罪.	These new facts, together with the other evidence, prove the prisoner's innocence.
陈旧	她使用的词语未免太chen2jiu4了。	She uses rather dated words and phrases.
巴结	她竭力ba1jie5主任希望得到提升.	She tried to ingratiateherself with the director, in the hope of getting promotion.
巩固	之后我们进一步gong3gu4和扩大了我们的军队。	After that we further consolidated and expanded our army.
上任	新shang4ren4的警察局长很快就让人感觉到他不是平庸之辈。他的主张一付诸实施镇里犯罪情况就少多了。	The new chief police officer quickly made his presence felt, and there was much less crime in the town after his ideas were put into practice.
率领	他shuai4ling3士兵袭击城堡。	He led an assault against the castle.
逝世	大家都对他的shi4shi4表示悲痛.	They all mourned his passing.
干劲	他们一到那儿就gan4jin4十足地投入工作。	As soon as they arrived there they ploughed into the work.
美观	您一定发现我们产品的包装mei3guan1讲究。	I think you'll find the packing beautiful and quite well-done.
闲话	你能不能别再说那种xian2hua4?	Can you put an end to that kind of gossip?
便条	我在他桌上留了张bian4tiao2。	I leave a note on his desk.
优越	正是在一定温度下塑料所具有的塑性使它比其他许多材料更you1yue4。	It is their plasticity at certain temperatures that gives plastics their main advantage over many other materials.
专程	我是zhuan1cheng2来看你的.	I came here specially to see you.
炎热	yan2re4的天气使牛奶变酸了。	The hot weather has soured the milk.
跟前	他忸忸怩怩走到她gen1qian2请她跳舞.	He sidled up/over to her and asked her to dance.
泄气	不要xie4qi4，不要xie4qi4，""我一直对自己说。	Don't give up. Don't give up, "" I kept telling myself.
缓和	这些批评意见已修改得huan3he2些以免得罪人.	The criticisms had been watered down so as not to offend anybody.
分寸	有fen1cun4的善意	A measure of good-will.
播种	农民们春季bo1zhong3玉米，现在是他们收获的季节。	It is a season that peasants reap the corn from what they planted in spring.
宏伟	建筑物建筑物，尤指大规模且外观hong2wei3的建筑物	A building, especially one of imposing appearance or size.
请柬	各方qing3jian3纷至沓来。	Invitations rained in on all sides.
威风	他喜欢对下级职员逞wei1feng1.	He likes to lord it over the junior staff.
独裁	du2cai2统治者一个有着无限权利的统治者；专制者	A ruler having unlimited power; a despot.
对照	对一组使用新药, 对另一组则使用旧药以资dui4zhao4.	One group was treated with the new drug, and a second group was treated with the old one as a control.
开拓	kai1tuo4开垦的行为或过程	The act or process of reclaiming.
私自	警察局说该局反对非执法人员si1zi4执法，可是辖区警员及当地居民对该［警卫］公司的策略颇感兴趣。	The Police Department says it opposes vigilante justice, but officers on the beat and neighborhood residents say they are enthusiastic about the company's tactics.
文献	＂我现在还不需要这些wen2xian4，但我还是要感谢你。＂	I don't need the literature at present. Thank you very much all the same.
爱戴	他极为大家所ai4dai4。	He is held in affection.
重叠	chong2die2的，交叉的某些昆虫休息时其翅膀重迭的或交叉的	Overlapping or crossing, as the wings of some insects when at rest.
攀登	向顶峰pan1deng1时身上都热起来了。	It was a warm climb to the summit.
号召	工会领袖hao4zhao4抗议那天全体会员积极参加.	Union leaders called for the active participation of all members in the day of protest.
鞭策	亟须找出解决方法, 这是bian1ce4他的动力.	The need to find a solution urged him on.
对称	他为我们介绍了花园中dui4chen4的布局。	He introduced to us the symmetrical arrangement of the garden.
外行	我不应该雇用他们--简直是一群wai4hang2.	I shouldn't employ them they're just a bunch of amateurs.
来历	这所房子有一段奇怪的lai2li4.	This house has a strange history.
采纳	这个建议完全是荒唐可笑的, 根本不可能cai3na4.	The entire proposal is risible: it will never be accepted.
驻扎	在那里zhu4zha1大量军队会有一定的危险性。	Stationing large forces there would involve a considerable risk.
总和	五加三的zong3he2是八。	The sum of 5 and 3 is 8.
加剧	他的行动不仅没有缓和局势，反而jia1ju4了局势。	Rather than relieving the situation, his action aggravated it.
奥秘	那是无法解释的ao4mi4。	It's an insoluble mystery.
生疏	如果你找不到别人，我同意为球队上场打球，但我先告诉你，我的球艺因久不练习已经sheng1shu1。	If you can't get anyone else I don't mind playing for the team, but I warn you that I'm not in practice.
就职	现时去国营企业jiu4zhi2的想法对年青人没有多大吸引力。	The idea of working for state-owned enterprises has little attraction to young people nowadays.
俯视	讲演的人fu3shi4著下面无数的面孔.	The lecturer looked down at the sea of faces beneath him.
阻挠	政府受到反对派zu3nao2而挫败.	The government were defeated by the obstructionism of their opponents.
兴高采烈	洋洋得意的；xing4gao1-cai3lie4的	Highly pleased; elated.
对立	我们应该努力摆脱劳资关系中｀那群人和我们＇这种dui4li4的态度.	We should try to get away from a `them and us' attitude in industrial relations.
致使	飞机猛然俯冲zhi4shi3驾驶员昏厥.	The plane dived suddenly, causing the pilot to black out.
规格	明明gui1ge2变了，他还不知道，因此经理训了他一顿。	The director chewed him out for not knowing that the specifications had been changed.
争端	调停调解zheng1duan1	Mediation in a dispute.
空想	kong1xiang3的想象的；不真实的；爱kong1xiang3的	Imaginary; unreal; fanciful.
座右铭	我的zuo4you4ming2是: ｀有一天过一天.＇	My motto is: `Live each day as it comes.'
改良	社会gai3liang2空想家幼稚的理想主义者，支持善心或博爱的事件的改革者	A naive idealist who supports philanthropic or humanitarian causes or reforms.
瘸	据说他腿que2了，是一次事故造成的。	It's said that his lameness resulted from an accident.
权衡	你必须quan2heng2住在大城市的利与弊。	You have to balance the advantages of living in a big city against the disadvantages.
便于	为bian4yu2编写计算机辅助教学的课程软件而发展的一种专用语言。参阅authorlanguage。	A special language for easily developing software of computer-aid courses.
谦逊	他的qian1xun4[愉快的样子]都是装出来的。	His modesty [air of joviality] was all put on.
怠慢	谁都不喜欢被人dai4man4。	No one like to be treated with neglect.
天然气	石油化学制品从石油或tian1ran2qi4中提炼出的化学产品	A chemical derived from petroleum or natural gas.
条理	他的工作方法无甚tiao2li3.	You'll find little system in his method of work.
动荡	社会dong4dang4是经济问题引起的。	The social unrest has its origins in economic problems.
范畴	分析型的以两个或两个以上的词代替屈折变化来表达语法fan4chou2的	Expressing a grammatical category by using two or more words instead of an inflected form.
停滞	经济正在ting2zhi4。	The economy is stagnating.
参照	can1zhao4今日和你方的谈判记录，兹随函寄上详细叙述订购卫生衣的订单2份，请查收。	Referring to my conversation with you today, I now enclose an order sheet for hosiery as specified.
钩子	你可以把外套挂在gou1zi5上。	You may hang your coat on the hook.
庄重	那种场合下应该具有的一切zhuang1zhong4的仪式都举行了。	All the solemnities of the occasion were observed.
拘束	某人能去请求改变判决的民事法院或刑事法院。这两种法院的裁决对高等法院和下级法院全都有ju1shu4力。	Civil or criminal court to which a person may go to ask for a sentence to be changed and of which the decision be binding on the high court and lower court.
和气	他多么he2qi4！	How kind he is!
抱负	＂如果他不努力，他将永远也不会实现有所成就的bao4fu4。＂	If he's lazy, he'll never fulfil his ambition to achieve anything.""
力所能及	这完全是你li4suo3neng2ji2的工作。	This is a task well within your ability.
结算	公司的jie2suan4显示利润大增.	The company's results show a huge jump in profits.
昼夜	但愿他别再zhou4-ye4不分地招待他的朋友.	I wish he'd desist from entertaining his friends at all hours of the day and night.
镶嵌	这是一幅由草地，河流，树木组成的五光十色的xiang1qian4画。	It's a rich mosaic of meadows, rivers and woods.
简陋	这儿的生活条件有点jian3lou4不堪，连床铺都没有。	The living conditions were a bit rough and ready, as there were no beds.
现成	你们有适合我穿的xian4cheng2的衣服吗？	Do you have anything ready- make that will fit me?
推论	她作出的他此时已经死亡的tui1lun4是正确的。	Her deduction that he was now dead was correct.
文雅	有教养的；wen2ya3的；精炼的	Educated; polished; refined.
歪曲	报纸把我的话全都wai1qu1了。	The papers twisted everything I said.
示意	该大臣已shi4yi4他明年可能辞职.	The minister has indicated that he may resign next year.
沿海	他正yan2hai3边走去。	He is walking down the seaside.
削弱	政治迫害表面上是开展揭露颠覆的活动，但实际上用于扰乱和xue1ruo4持不同看法的人的调查	An investigation carried out ostensibly to uncover subversive activities but actually used to harass and undermine those with differing views.
阐述	她已明确chan3shu4了自己的观点.	She has made her position very clear.
精密	就防御的观点来说，我们需要购买更多jing1mi4的武器。	As far as defense is concerned, we need to buy more sophisticated weapons.
时事	她发表shi2shi4广播演说。	She broadcasts on current affairs.
规章	有gui1zhang1规定建筑材料的某些标准.	Regulations prescribe certain standards for building materials.
交涉	这次销售jiao1she4不知道结果会怎样？	How is the sale negotiation going to turn out?
排放	制造多级火箭的一种方法是把各级火箭并pai2fang4在底部。	One of the ways to make step rockets is to put the stages side by side at the bottom.
涌现	流行歌曲一被接受, 追星族就大量yong3xian4。	As soon as popular songs were accepted, fans appeared in a rash.
佳肴	所有来客一致认为他们在宴会上吃得是美味jia1yao2。	All the guests agreed that they fared well at the dinner party.
整顿	公司经过几年的迅速发展之後, 该zheng3dun4一下了.	The time has come for the firm to consolidate after several years of rapid expansion.
开辟	游击队在那个省kai1pi4了一条新战线。	The guerrillas opened up a new front in that province.
湖泊	hu2po1学研究淡水，尤指hu2po1和海洋的生命和现象的科学研究	The scientific study of the life and phenomena of fresh water, especially lakes and ponds.
饱和	鲜明的，鲜艳的一种高亮度和强bao3he2度结合的色彩的或与之相关的	Relating to or being a hue that has a combination of high lightness and strong saturation.
波涛	轮船沉没于bo1tao1下面。	The ship sank beneath the waves.
急剧	经ji2ju4通货膨胀之後物价现已趋於平稳.	After a period of rapid inflation, prices have now reached a plateau.
督促	她干起活来倒是相当不错，不过有时需要加以du1cu4。	She is a fairly good worker, but she needs prod occasionally.
屏障	撒哈拉沙漠是北非与中非之间的天然ping2zhang4。	The Sahara Desert is a natural barrier between north and central Africa.
申报	请书面shen1bao4你在国外购买的全部商品。	Please make a written declaration of all the goods you bought abroad.
牲畜	在这土地平坦的乡间，人们种植水稻，饲养sheng1chu4。	In this flat country people grow rice and raise cattle.
指南针	自从我们的祖先发明zhi3nan2zhen1以来，将近两千年过去了。	Nearly two thousand years have passed since our ancestors invented the compass.
力求	政府li4qiu2今年把通货膨胀率再减低百分之二.	The government will be looking to reduce inflation by a further two per cent this year.
简化	我们得jian3hua4手续才能将你的签证及时办妥.	We've had to cut a few corners to get your visa ready in time.
淡水	这条河的长度是dan4shui3河的十倍。	The river is ten times the length of the Tamsui River.
调和	她用挖苦的语tiao2he5他说话。	She talked with him with sarcastic tones.
伤脑筋	我们的新汽车很让人shang1 nao3jin1.	We're having trouble with our new car.
暂且	我还不想公开我那些会引起争论的观点，宁可zan4qie3随大溜。	Not wanting to make my controversial view know yet, I preferred to follow the crowd for a while.
尖端	尖的，尖锐的有尖点或jian1duan1的	Having a sharp point or tip.
园林	西洋樱草一种杂交的yuan2lin2樱草，开有由各色花朵组成的花簇	Any of a group of hybrid garden primroses having clusters of variously colored flowers.
轮船	那lun2chuan2颠簸摇晃, 很多乘客头晕恶心.	The ship pitched and rolled and many passengers were sick.
作废	这张票已过了有效期，现在zuo4fei4了。	This ticket has passed its expiration date, and so it is now invalid.
乐谱	八分音符、四分音符和二分音符在yue4pu3上是不同长度的三个音符。	Quavers, crotchets and minims are three of the different lengths of note in written music.
渔民	这位yu2min2笑道：""没事儿！""说着就和别人一道下水了。	It's nothing, ""smiled the fisherman, then disappeared into the water with the others.
惊动	我们穿过田野时，jing1dong4了一只野兔。	As we were walking across the fields, we started a hare.
请帖	我已给我全家人都寄去了qing3tie3. 还要给你家的人及邻居们寄.	I've sent cards to all my family. Then there's your family and the neighbours.
意向	他了解人民的yi4xiang4。	He knew the pulse of the people.
摘要	总论，纲要详细的zhai1yao4或整个论文	A comprehensive digest or complete treatise.
盛行	收集古董突然sheng4xing2起来.	Suddenly, collecting antiques is all the fashion.
封建	封臣，臣属从feng1jian4地主手中获得土地并接受保护的人，以敬意和忠诚回报	A person who held land from a feudal lord and received protection in return for homage and allegiance.
附件	这些fu4jian4及专用工具的费用应包括在该品目的基本价格之中。	The cost of these accessories and special tools shall be included in the basic price of the item.
挑拨	她tiao3bo1两个对手相争, 自己却获得了那份工作.	She played her two rivals off against each other and got the job herself.
歌颂	他给我们读了一首ge1song4爱情的十四行诗。	He read us a sonnet that celebrates love.
迟缓	她对这个老人手脚chi2huan3，头脑糊涂十分恼火。她应该记住人都要年老的。	She gets impatient with the old man being so slow and confused. She ought to remember that old age comes to us all.
确立	资产阶级政客们为了要在自己政党内que4li4有利地位而钻营策划。	The bourgeois politicians jockeyed about in order to establish advantageous positions within their party.
次序	最早的在时间和ci4xu4上首次出现的；最早的	Occurring first in time or sequence; earliest.
工艺品	很难判定这两件gong1yi4pin3孰优孰劣，它们都很好看。	It's hard to judge between the tow handicraft articles; they're both charming.
背诵	他把诗中记得住的都bei4song4出来了。	He recited as much of the poem as he could remember.
走漏	那卖国贼zou3lou4秘密计划给敌人。	The traitor divulged secret plan to the enemy.
恰到好处	鱼做得qia4dao4-hao3chu4。	The fish is done to a turn.
勾结	那两个罪犯（彼此）gou1jie2在一起.	The two criminals were in cahoots (with each other).
空隙	深景尤指人透过如两排建筑或树木之间kong4xi4看到的远景或视觉感受	A distant view or prospect, especially one seen through an opening, as between rows of buildings or trees.
周密	要想弄清事实，唯一办法是作zhou1mi4的调查。	The only way to get at the facts is to make a thorough investigation.
天文	这个宝石的价格十分昂贵－－简直是个tian1wen2数字。	The price of this gem is expensive -- as much so as astronomical figures.
方针	他们的研究沿着正确的fang1zhen1进行。	Their research proceeded along sound lines.
声势	他说：""我的竞选已始出现sheng1shi4。""	There is momentum beginning to occur is my campaign, ""he said.
偏差	凡是定长远的计画都难免出pian1cha1.	Long-term planning is always rather a hit-or-miss affair.
牵制	如果这匹马不受qian1zhi4, 它就会跳过篱笆。	If the horse had not been held in, he would have cleared the fence.
通货膨胀	tong1huo4 peng2zhang4率已经超过了8%。	The level of inflation has gone beyond 8%.
萌芽	芽，meng2ya2茎或枝上小的隆起物，有时被包在保护性的介壳中，内中有未发育的根、叶子或花	A small protuberance on a stem or branch, sometimes enclosed in protective scales and containing an undeveloped shoot, leaf, or flower.
兴致勃勃	旅行中她始终xing4zhi4-bo2bo2。	She remained cheerful throughout the trip.
盛情	感谢你们使我的访问如此有价值。我将珍惜我们之间的友谊及你们给予我的sheng4qing2款待。	Thank you for making my visit so worthwhile. I shall treasure your friendship and kind hospitality you have given me.
名次	尽管我儿子在伊顿公学中得过ming2ci4，但当然还得取决于他的入学考试成绩。	My son has a place at Eton, although of course it still hinges on the result of his entrance examination.
饲养	我的弟弟是si4yang3牛的si4yang3员。	My brother is a cattle breeder.
处分	我警告你，如果你再这样干，我们就要chu3fen4你了。	I warn you if you do that again We'll punish you.
辽阔	liao2kuo4的平原绵延数百英里。	The vast plains stretch for hundreds of miles.
威信	发表这个声明只是为了提高他个人的wei1xin4。	The statement was aimed at raising his personal prestige.
津津有味	他讲了许多冒险故事, 我们听得jin1jin1 you3 wei4.	He beguiled us with many a tale ofadventure.
告辞	她说时间不早了; 我心领神会, 於是gao4ci2.	She said it was getting late: I got the message, and left.
化肥	比较富裕的农民这时购买hua4fei2，但合作社却买不起。	The richer peasants were buying chemical fertilizer, but the co-op could not afford it.
媒介	现在大众传播mei2jie4有很大的力量。	The media have a lot of power today.
提炼	废糖蜜ti2lian4粗糖过程中产生的，颜色从淡到深褐色的一种粘性糖桨	A thick syrup produced in refining raw sugar and ranging from light to dark brown in color.
博览会	昨天市长主持了世界bo2lan3hui4的开幕式。	The mayor dedicated the World Fair yesterday.
呼啸	风hu1xiao4著穿过树林.	The wind screamed through the trees.
朝代	中国历史上有多少个chao2dai4？	How many dynasties are there in China's history?
栽培	她写信来咨询玫瑰花的zai1pei2方法。	She wrote in for advice on how to grow roses.
绣	她把她姓名的起首字母xiu4在手帕上。	She embroidered her initials on the handkerchief.
固体	gu4ti3、液体和气体是物质的三种状态。	Solid, liquid and gas are three kinds of states of substance.
自发	事件剧一种即兴的、通常是zi4fa1的、尤指由观众参与的场景或演出	An improvised, often spontaneous spectacle or performance, especially one involving audience participation.
制约	强迫的由强迫或压制所引起或zhi4yue1的	Caused or conditioned by compulsion or obsession.
千方百计	他今早睡过了头，所以这会儿他qian1fang1-bai3ji4要赶上那班火车。	He overslept this morning, so now he is trying to rush for his train.
参谋	副官，人事行政can1mou2帮助指挥官处理行政事务的人事官员	A staff officer who helps a commanding officer with administrative affairs.
雄伟	一座xiong2wei3的大桥横亘在大江之上。	A magnificent bridge spans the river.
承包	有几家公司在投标争取cheng2bao1建桥工程。	Several companies are bidding for the contract to build the bridge.
鼓动	约翰是一名出色的演讲者，他可以不费气力地把任何听众gu3dong4得激动若狂。	John is a good speaker. He can easily work any crowd up into a fever of excitement.
风气	我希望男女机会平等（的思想）能形成feng1qi4.	I hope that (the idea of) equality of opportunity for men and women has come to/is here to stay.
大体	到目前为止，主席只能提出个da4ti3规划，还不能很具体。	So far, the chairman has only been able to trace out the outline of the plan, without any details.
耐用	担保一种字据或保证，通常为书面的，以保证某种产品或服务的质量或nai4yong4性	A promise or an assurance, especially one given in writing, that attests to the quality or durability of a product or service.
蕴藏	台湾恐怕没有yun4cang2石油吧！	Taiwan seems to contain no petroleum.
攻克	经过长时间包围之后，这个小镇已被起义军gong1ke4。	After a prolonged siege, the town was rendered up to the insurgents.
茂盛	这种花在温暖的气候中长得mao4sheng4.	This species of flower flourishes in a warm climate.
谢绝	我因有约在先, 所以只好xie4jue2你的邀请.	I shall have to refuse your invitation because of a prior engagement.
当务之急	作出决策乃dang1 wu4 zhi1 ji2，此事必然地落在他身上。	The necessity for making decisions devolves on him.
杂交	这两种类型的狗可以za2jiao1繁殖.	These two types of dog can interbreed/be interbred (with each other).
田径	现在，tian2jing4项目的半决赛正在进行。	Now, the semifinal of the track and field event is underway.
运算	一种用于按照严格的过程规则实现的数学和逻辑yun4suan4的通用术语。	A generic term for all mathematical and logical operations carried out according to precise rules of procedure.
才干	她杰出的cai2gan4已经由她获得迅速提升而得到证明.	Her outstanding abilities were attested by her rapid promotion.
问世	他的新著将於春季wen4shi4.	His new book will be appearing in the spring.
铸造	砂箱zhu4zao4车间内保持砂模用的框架	A frame for holding a sand mold in a foundry.
论证	这一章包含著作者lun4zheng4的主要部分.	This chapter contains the meat of the writer's argument.
会晤	他们hui4wu4了各行各业的人。	They interviewed people from all walks of life.
钻研	他在zuan1yan2生物学。	He is digging at biology.
投掷	向他tou2zhi4! 我谅你也不敢!	Throw it at him! I dare you!
寓言	人们可以从yu4yan2里吸取经验教训。	People can draw a moral from tales.
颁布	立法者制定或ban1bu4法律的人；立法者	One who makes or enacts laws; a legislator.
壮丽	zhuang4li4的山峰	Proud alpine peaks.
灌溉	干旱地区需要guan4gai4才能使作物生长。	Irrigation is needed to make crops grow in dry regions.
学说	至于地平xue2shuo1，我相信我能驳斥它。	As for the Flat Earth theory, I believe I could refute it.
着重	我想zhuo2zhong4指出，我们愿意在任何时候与管理部门会谈。	I would like to emphasize that we are ready to meet the management at any time.
共计	金额gong4ji4230美元。	The sum came to 230 dollars.
崇敬	人们来到纪念馆chong2jing4地纪念这位伟大的领袖。	People came to the memorial to revere the memory of the great leader.
干旱	饥荒往往是战争或gan1han4造成的。	Famine is often the sequel to war or drought.
赤道	那里是chi4dao4气候。	There is an equatorial climate.
缴纳	不jiao3na4税款就可能被起诉。	Failure to pay your taxes will make you liable to prosecution.
杠杆	支撑的位置如gang4gan3上的位置或某人的双脚等用于移动或支撑重量的位置	A position, as of a lever or one's feet, affording means to move or secure a weight.
自满	我们不能zi4man3, 必须继续努力改进.	There's no room for complacency; we must continue to try to improve.
见闻	旅游可以使人增长jian4wen2，尤其对年轻人。	Travel is an edifying experience, especially for young people.
柴油	chai2you2潜艇在水下只能航行非常短的时间，而核潜艇在水下航行的时间要长得多。	A diesel submarine is able to cruise under water for a short period of time, but a nuclear one is able to cruise under water much longer.
请示	他做任何事都要首先qing3shi4他老婆—他是个十足的“妻管严”。	He never does anything without asking his wife first—he's a completely hen-pecked husband.
吹捧	出版商们总chui1peng3他们的新书	Publishers who puff their new books.
停泊	他们把船开进海港下锚ting2bo2.	They brought the boat into the harbour and dropped (the) anchor.
弊端	成名的bi4duan1之一是失去了私人活动自由。	One of the penalties of fame is loss of privacy.
赤字	销售开始下跌，公司财务不久便出现chi4zi4，他们只得把那幢大楼卖掉。	Sales began to drop and the company was soon in the red. They had to sell the building.
悬殊	主队以xuan2shu1比分垂手赢得（这场比赛的）胜利.	The local team won (the match) hands down.
注释	注解，zhu4shi4，评注评注或注解的行为或过程	The act or process of furnishing critical commentary or explanatory notes.
衔接	那两只航天器xian2jie1起来了。	The two space vehicles locked on to each other.
陈列	那种织物chen2lie4在金属制的架子上。	The fabric was displayed on a wired stand.
列举	她lie4ju3她所要干的事情。	She listed all the thing she have to do.
落成	市长主持了市图书馆的luo4cheng2仪式。	The city library was inaugurated by the mayor.
纺织	她那灵巧的手指把羊毛fang3zhi1成了细线。	Her skillful fingers spun the wool out to a fine thread.
勘探	kan1tan4人员进入了一片沙漠地带。	The explorers entered upon a desert tract.
简要	盒上印有装配模型的jian3yao4说明.	Simple directions for assembling the model are printed on the box.
并列	描述逻辑函数的一种表，表中列出输入值的全部可能组合，bing4lie4出与每种输入组合相对应的实际的输出值。	A table that describes a logic function by listing all possible combinations of input values and indicating, for each combination, the true output values.
地势	那省的大部分地区di4shi4平坦。	Most of the province is as flat as a pancake.
法人	合并两个或多个商业上的利益集团或fa3ren2团体的合并	The merger of two or more commercial interests or corporations.
征收	政府决定对进口汽车zheng1shou1保护税。	The government decided to impose a protective tariff on foreign cars.
精打细算	他们花了几年的时间，jing1da3-xi4suan4，省吃俭用，终于使航海度假成为现实。	It took years of planning and saving, but their sea-going vacation came true at last.
振兴	千方百计zhen4xing1渔业注定徒劳无功.	All attempts to revive the fishing industry were foredoomed to failure.
应邀	我ying4yao1参加亚洲人的婚礼. 这种婚礼是如何举行的?	I've been invited to an Asian wedding. What happens on such occasions?
陡峭	他们一点一点地攀上那座dou3qiao4的山.	They climbed the steep mountain inch by inch.
相等	他在气力方面和我xiang1deng3, 但在智力方面却不如我。	He equals me in strength but not in intelligence.
刊物	他已阅读了论及他研究领域的当前的各种kan1wu4。	He's read all the current publications touching on his field of research.
及早	我们ji2zao3订票以确保有座。	We book early to assure ourselves of seats.
奠定	焦耳，詹姆斯·普雷斯科特1818－1889英国物理学家，为热量机械理论dian4ding4基础，并发现了热力学第一定律	British physicist who established the mechanical theory of heat and discovered the first law of thermodynamics.
一丝不苟	能工巧匠的特点是yi1 si1 bu4 gou3.	Attention to detail is the hallmark of a fine craftsman.
筐	小矿车，柳条箩矿井中用的车、盆或kuang1	A truck, tub, or basket used in a mine.
旷课	他无法说明他kuang4ke4的原因。	He could not account for his absence from school.
神态	他演讲的shen2tai4还显出有点缺乏自信.	His public speaking manner is still not very assured.
船舶	货物chuan2bo2、飞机或其它交通工具运载的货物	The freight carried by a ship, an aircraft, or another vehicle.
讥笑	他被他们ji1xiao4。	He is laughed at by them.
边疆	他写了一本描写bian1jiang1各省的专著。	He wrote a book descriptive of the frontier provinces.
棍棒	示威者用gun4bang4和各种投掷物攻击警察。	Demonstrators attacked the police, using sticks and assorted missiles.
谋求	他在千方百计mou2qiu2这份差使。	He is bucking for the job.
争先恐后	这场抢劫统共经历了三分钟，因为这伙人zheng1xian1-kong3hou4的爬进汽车，以使人难以置信的速度把汽车开跑了。	The raid was all over in three minutes, for the men scrambled back into the car and it moved off at a fantastic speed.
操练	普鲁士士兵在锯木厂后边草地上cao1lian4。	The Prussians are drilling in the meadow behind the sawmill.
实事求是	我是shi2 shi4 qiu2 shi4的人－－知道不可能在一夜之间改变人们的看法。	I'm a realist I know you can't change people's attitudes overnight.
派别	在两个pai4bie2之间实现和平；毫无意义；没有达到定额	Made peace between the two factions; not making sense; didn't make the quota.
拟定	据报道一项改组计划正在ni3ding4之中。	A plan of reorganization is reported to be now in the works.
次品	我不愿花这麽多钱买ci4pin3.	I grudge paying so much for such inferior goods.
威望	肥缺能带来优势，如利益或wei1wang4的职位、任命或地位	A position, an appointment, or a rank giving advancement, as of profit or prestige.
耸	她song3了song3肩膀.	She gave a shrug of her shoulders.
耕地	大雨过後有几片geng1di4被淹.	Several fields are under water after the heavy rain.
亭子	山的半中腰有一座ting2zi5。	A pavilion is halfway up the hill.
淡季	冬天是大多数旅馆的dan4ji4。	Winter is the slack season at most hotels.
短促	我们怎样才能延长duan3cu4的人生？	How can we endeavor to prolong the brevity of human life?
闭塞	我觉得这个城镇太bi4se4.	I find this town too much of a backwater.
丘陵	泰晤士河发源於科茨沃尔德qiu1ling2.	The Thames rises in the Cotswold Hills.
欣欣向荣	各行各业都xin1xin1 xiang4 rong2。	Every trade is thriving.
装卸	货损有没有可能是因粗暴zhuang1xie4而引起的呢？	Can it be possible that the damage is caused by rough handling?
朝气蓬勃	在各条战线上都有精力充沛zhao1qi4-peng2bo2的青年人。	On every front there are young people abounding in vigor and vitality.
稿件	还没有装订成册的论文gao3jian4堆放在桌子上。	The unbound sheets of paper were piled up on the table.
不相上下	论智力, 她和她哥哥bu4 xiang1 shang4-xia4.	She's the equal of her brother as far as intelligence is concerned.
连年	如果我lian2nian2努力工作，最后会得到什么呢？金钱、地位和他人的尊敬？	If I work hard for years, what will I wind up with? Money, position and respect?
历代	历史记载li4dai4重要的事件。	History chronicles important events of the past.
肥沃	因为土地fei2wo4，那儿很富裕。	It's rich there because of the fertility of soil.
宁肯	我ning4ken3选择安全储蓄计划，而不愿意冒很大的风险以获取高利率。	I'd rather go for a safe savings plan than one with a high rate of interest but a lot of risk
难能可贵	她带病努力工作, 真是nan2 neng2 ke3 gui4!	She works so hard in spite of her illness: she's a marvel!
磋商	我很高兴经过反复cuo1shang1我们就合同条款取得一致意见。	I am glad that we have agreed on term of the contract after repeated negotiation.
出神	尽管被众人质问，但是这位领导人仍然表现chu1shen2气十足的样子。	Despite being heckled by the crowd, the leader bore himself with dignity.
章程	他是根据工会zhang1cheng2第23条规则行动的。	He is acting under rule23 of the union constitution.
查获	警方cha2huo4了各种书和磁带.	The police seized various books and tapes.
不由得	听了这话，他bu4you2de5笑了起来。	Hearing the words, he couldn't keep from laughing.
把关	这孩子ba3guan1在笼里的鸟儿放出来，鸟儿吱吱叫着飞走了。	The boy set his caged bird loose, and it flew away chirping.
供不应求	开始gong1bu4ying4qiu2。	Demand began to exceed supply.
搀	果冻chan1水太多就凝固不好了.	You won't get a good set if you put too much water in the jelly.
炉灶	牛奶放在lu2zao4上的锅里热着。	The milk is warmed in a saucepan on the stove.
序言	他给这本日记写了xu4yan2, 简述日记发现的经过.	He prefaced the diaries with a short account of how they were discovered.
川流不息	参观者chuan1 liu2 bu4 xi1地向这所房子走来.	A procession of visitors came to the house.
堤坝	di1ba4建成後水已加深.	The water deepened after the dam was built.
弊病	暴力犯罪仅仅是危害社会的bi4bing4之一。	Violent crime is only one of the maladies afflicting modern society.
砍伐	我们要减少kan3fa2的树的数量.	We are going to scale down the number of trees being felled.
布告	bu4gao4牌上写著｀勿踏草地＇.	The notice said Keep off (ie Do not walk on) the grass'.
成就	他在物理学方面已经取得了巨大cheng2jiu4。	He has got brilliant achievements in the field of physics.
体验	一个人只要将自己的大脑与计算机连接起来，进入Cyberspace，就可以ti3yan4在该空间的一切遭遇。	Once his brain was linked with the computer, a man would undergo all experiences in　the space.
正	这对我zheng4合适。	That suits me all right.
所	这suo3大学里有多少教室？	How many schoolrooms are there in this college?
推荐	这一新裁定使特别委员会的tui1jian4生效.	The new ruling gives effect to the recommendations of the special committee.
搞	她一辈子gao3戏剧。	She is been in the theater all her life.
杀	消毒剂灭sha1细菌。	Disinfectant kills germs.
参与	由于他的can1yu4，我们赢了比赛。	We win the game because of his participation.
人生	在诗歌中，ren2sheng1被比喻为朝露。	Life is poetically compared to the morning dew.
如何	这本书教我们ru2he2写作。	The book is used to teach us how to write.
宝贝	她是小bao3bei4!	She's a little darling!
居然	我ju1ran2发现了一只巨大的蜘蛛！	What should I find but an enormous spider!
套	我那tao4海军蓝的西装在哪儿?	Where's my navy (blue) suit?
系	他毕业于历史xi4。	He graduated from History Department.
拍	他觉得有人轻pai1他的肩膀.	He felt a tap on his shoulder.
祝福	牧师在船离港之前为其zhu4fu2。	The priest blessed the ship before it left port.
挑战	他们tiao3zhan4那家公司在电子学领域中占据的领先地位。	They challenged that company's supremacy in the field of electronics.
主题	论述，详述对一个zhu3ti2正式的详谈；阐述	A formal discourse on a topic; an exposition.
反正	不管你怎麽说（对我来说）都无所谓, fan3zheng4我不去.	It makes no difference (to me) what you say: I'm not going.
首	从头开始背诵这shou3诗.	Recite the poem (right) from the (very) beginning.
兄弟	和他xiong1di4不同，他有种幽默感。	Unlike his brother, he has a good sense of humor.
收获	因为现在是shou1huo4期，所以我们都非常忙。	We are all very busy because it's the harvest time.
某	我确信mou3一天他会成功的。	I am sure he will succeed one day or another.
根本	海关官员gen1ben3没检查我们的行李。	The Customs officer didn't bother to check our luggage.
靠	我们kao4码头停泊.	We moored alongside the quay.
枪	她用qiang1向他们射击。	She fired her gun at them.
日子	真是倒霉的ri4zi5。	It's just been one of those days.
传说	你听说过凯尔特人的chuan2shuo1吗？	Have you heard the Celtic lore?
曾经	他不提他ceng2jing1和她见面。	He made no mention of having met her.
片	我们家附近有pian4松树林。	There is a pine forest near our house.
位置	这所房子处于一个很好的wei4zhi5。	The house has a very good position.
或许	多读书huo4xu3可以减少你的疑惑。	More reading may be allaying your doubt.
英雄	把他说成是ying1xiong2、 天才、 笨蛋, 不一而足.	He was variously described as a hero, a genius and a fool.
期待	我一直qi1dai4着和您见面。	I have been looking forward to seeing you.
连续	经过lian2xu4几次的失败，他最后终于通过了驾驶考试。	After a series of unsuccessful attempts, he has finally passed the driving test.
失去	shi1qu4健康才知道健康的可贵。	We do not know the value of health till we lose it.
哈	根据英国法律，ha1拍特无罪。	According to English law, Hubert is innocent.
唯一	治疗背痛的wei2yi1办法是休息。	The only way to cure backache is to rest.
绝对	我认为那jue2dui4必要。	I consider it absolutely necessary.
确定	我们开会的时间已经que4ding4了.	The time for our meeting has been fixed already.
赶紧	请假离开办公室之后我gan3jin3去了医院。	After asking off my office, I went to the hospital immediately.
未来	当官的无疑将决定我们的wei4lai2。	Officialdom will no doubt decide our future.
抓	鹰用爪zhua1住了老鼠.	The eagle held a mouse in its claws.
精神	我们为他们的献身jing1shen5所感动。	We were deeply moved by their devotion.
随时	银行sui2shi2兑换见票即付的汇票。	The bank receives drafts payable at sight at any time.
痛苦	他的tong4ku3现在已经过去。	His pain is past now.
装	一篮一篮子所zhuang1的量	The amount that a basket can hold.
整个	zheng3ge4工作只需要半个小时。	The whole job only takes half an hour.
血	xue4在他的xue4管中流动.	The blood coursed through his veins.
寻找	我想xun2zhao3我的一个老同学。	I want to search out an old school friend.
完美	她所说的每一件事都体现了信仰和行动的wan2mei3和谐。	There was a happy chime of belief and practice in everything she said.
明星	报界把那个新运动员吹捧成为超级ming2xing1。	The newspaper puff up that new athlete into a superstar
老婆	若要lao3po5留意自己所说的话，作丈夫的只要把话向其他女性说便成了。	If a man want his wife to pay attention to what he say, he address his remarks to another woman.
表现	这个男孩biao3xian4出很高的智慧。	The boy evinces great intelligence.
傻	他要是有一点常识的话，就不会干这种sha3事。	He wouldn't do such silly things if he had a morsel of sense.
呆	我一刻也不能再dai1下去了。	I can't stay any longer.
行动	她把自己的原则体现在xing2dong4中。	She embodies her principles in her behavior.
梦想	他以为她爱上他，但只是meng4xiang3而已。	He thinks she is in love with him, but it's only a dream.
疯狂	我feng1kuang2地渴望去完成那件事。	I have an insane desire to finish that thing.
家庭	战争使许多jia1ting2妻离子散。	The war separated many families.
作为	我会给你一磅zuo4wei2先付部分。	I will give you a pound in part payment.
伤害	我决不会有意shang1hai4你的感情.	I would never intentionally hurt your feelings.
猪	zhu1是一种家畜。	A pig is a domestic animal.
秘密	我答应决不泄漏他的mi4mi4。	I promise never to reveal his secret.
幸运	你这个xing4yun4的家伙！	You lucky rascal!
保持	她bao3chi2著跳远世界纪录.	She holds the world record for the long jump.
享受	我们xiang3shou4着湖面上吹来的凉爽微风。	We are enjoying the cool breeze that comes from the lake.
方式	她谈话的fang1shi4缓慢而审慎.	She has a slow, deliberate way of talking.
失眠	我夜里经常shi1mian2.	I can't sleep nights.
处理	chu3li3这个问题有好几个方法。	There are several ways of approaching the problem.
控制	kong4zhi4工资是政府政策的关键.	Controlling wages is the linchpin of the Government'spolicies.
目标	你的生活mu4biao1是什么？	What is your aim in life?
成长	他的儿子已cheng2zhang3为一个健壮勤劳的小伙子。	His son has grown up into a sturdy hardworking young man.
面对	基本的事实mian4dui4着我们。	The elemental truth was facing us.
等待	他们自信地deng3dai4我自己发现事实真相。	They were waiting with assurance for me to discover the truth for myself.
代表	这个方程式中的xdai4biao3什麽?	What does x represent in this equation?
自由	zi4you2的不受监禁或奴役的；zi4you2的	Not imprisoned or enslaved; being at liberty.
空间	这里没有可工作的kong1jian1.	There's no room to work here.
个人	我们四ge4ren2挤在座位上.	There were four of us squashed up against each other on the seat.
发表	他的文章在省报上fa1biao3了。	His articles are published on the provincial newspaper.
老板	如果你再迟到，lao3ban3就会把你解雇。	If you are late again the boss will give you the sack.
温暖	在夏天一个wen1nuan3的夜晚...	One warm summer evening.../On a warm summer evening...
事实	记者们歪曲了shi4shi2。	The reporter distorted the facts.
属于	你认为她的小说shu3yu2文学类，还是其它类?	Would you classify her novels as serious literature or other?
简直	这样浪费金钱jian3zhi2是罪恶。	It's a wicked waste of money.
对方	他们站在那，互相怒视着dui4fang1。	They stood there, glaring at each other.
感受	我一点都不理会他们的gan3shou4.	I don't care a jot for their feelings.
派	卫兵pai4驻在监狱四周。	Guards were stationed around the prison.
青春	我无法忍受年轻人虚掷qing1chun1。	I can't bear young people casting away their youth.
超级	明年将要修建一条chao1ji2高速公路。	A superhighway will be constructed next year.
设计	我们得she4ji4出三年级的新课程.	We shall have to design a new curriculum for the third year.
存在	在美国cun2zai4长期失业问题。	There is a chronic unemployment problem in America.
经典	希伯莱圣经；托位包括伯莱jing1dian3的一大部书籍，用于宗教仪式时向人们布道	A scroll of parchment containing the first five books of the Hebrew Scriptures, used in a synagogue during services.
不断	你们的运动bu4duan4取得进展.	Your campaign is gaining ground.
记录	我没有这匹马的情况ji4lu4。	I've got no record of this horse's form.
中心	本议程将成为下次会议的zhong1xin1议题.	This agenda will form the basis of our next meeting.
系统	我们的邮政xi4tong3临时出了一点小问题.	There's been a slight hiccup in our mailing system.
报告	我和她商量过我的bao4gao4。	I consulted with her about my report.
姑娘	他娶了一位非常美丽的gu1niang5。	He married a girl of extraordinary beauty.
功能	本质事物的本质、gong1neng2或性质	The essential function or nature of a thing.
群	他们是一qun2笨蛋.	They're a load of morons.
以及	请登记你的姓名、年龄yi3ji2供养的亲属的人数。	Please state your name, age, and the number of dependants you have.
身份	她意外地发现了他的真实shen1fen5。	She stumbled on his true identity.
现实	现行的教育制度和xian4shi2并不一致。	The current education system is not in concert with the reality.
人类	只有ren2lei4才具有说话的能力。	Only human beings are capable of speech.
理由	我不完全理解他离开的li3you2。	I don't fully understand his reasons for leaving.
意义	我想讲一下这首诗的yi4yi4。	I want to bring out the meaning of the poem.
直	他zhi2晃脑袋.	His head keeps jerking.
总统	谁将获得zong3tong3提名？	Who will get the nomination for president?
微笑	他向我走来，wei1xiao4著伸出手来和我握手。	He came towards me, smiled and offered his hand.
冲	汽车以惊人的速度向桥chong1过去。	The car rushed at the bridge at astonishing speed.
真实	他告诉我的消息是zhen1shi2的。	The news he told me is truthful.
糟糕	我再也不想到这个zao1gao1的地方来了.	I have no intention of coming to this terrible place again!
力量	我还认识到了集体的li4liang5。	I also learned the strength of the collective.
想象	这部小说引起了千万读者的xiang3xiang4。	The novel captured the imagination of thousands of readers.
酒吧	坐在窗边的那个老家伙不太引人注目—人们记不起他是什么时候开始就每天晚上光顾这家jiu3ba1。	That old fellow by the window is part of the furniture—he's been coming in this pub every night for longer than anyone can remember.
表情	她听到这一消息时biao3qing2就变了。	Her expression changed when she heard the news.
组	那两zu3交通灯不同步。	The two sets of traffic lights were out of phase.
的确	这音乐di2que4使我非常激动.	The music really stirred my blood.
承认	他cheng2ren4以前从未见过她。	He confessed that he had never seen her before.
心理	这种xin1li3治疗是在一起活动的小组之间进行的.	The psychotherapy is carried out in small interactive groups.
可怕	那ke3pa4情景使我的背脊发凉.	The gruesome sight sent a shiver down my spine.
亮	这灯泡不liang4了.	This light bulb has gone.
寂寞	他在家里度过了一个ji4mo4的夜晚。	He spent a lonesome evening at home.
则	金属遇热ze2膨胀.	If metal gets hot it expands.
神秘	他过去的经历笼罩着shen2mi4气氛。	His past is enveloped in a shroud of mystery.
食物	大米是我们生活的基本shi2wu4。	Rice is our essential foodstuff in life.
状态	更改，改变由改变导致的zhuang4tai4；更改	The condition resulting from altering; modification.
顶	他用肩膀用力ding3那房门.	He pushed hard against the door with his shoulder.
吓	他xia4得毛发倒竖。	He got a vertical breeze up.
珍惜	老师们纷纷表示，非常zhen1xi1这次宝贵的学习机会，将会把学到的知识教给自己的同事和学生，使更多的人掌握电脑的基本知识。	The participants said they valued this special opportunity very much and would teach what they had learned to their colleagues and students to help more people master basic computer skills.
滚	【谚】gun3石不生苔。	A rolling stone gathers no moss.
记忆	我与她的第一次会面的情景经常出现在我的ji4yi4中。	My first meeting with her often recurs to my memory.
胜利	他因得到sheng4li4而洋洋得意。	He gloried in his victory.
明显	对罪犯的改造有了ming2xian3的效果。	The reformation of criminals has produced an obvious result.
晒	太阳把这本书的书皮shai4弯了.	The hot sun had warped the cover of the book.
消失	他学习日语的兴趣逐渐xiao1shi1了。	His interest in learning Japanese has petered out.
必要	我觉得这是绝对bi4yao4的。	I feel it is absolutely necessary.
证据	他出示假zheng4ju4，这就是蔑视法庭。	He gave false proof, which set the court at defiance.
时代	七十年代是超短裙shi2dai4。	It's an era of the miniskirt in the seventies.
瞧	qiao2那对时髦夫妇，打扮多么入时。	Look at that trendy couple- kitted up all the latest gear!
充满	我心中chong1man3了回家的渴望。	I am filled with desire to go back home.
政府	zheng4fu3已经批准了这个项目。	The government has ratified the project.
堆	街道上垃圾成dui1。	There were piles of litter in the streets.
依然	玛丽的母亲去世了, 她父亲yi1ran2健在.	Mary's mother is dead but her father is still alive.
分手	他们已经到了必须彼此fen1shou3的地步。	They have reached the point where they have to separate with each other.
似乎	他si4hu1把正号误作负号了。	He seems to have mistaken a plus for a minus.
翻	不要把过去的事都fan1出来。	Don't rake up the past.
情绪	这个决定受他qing2xu4的影响。	The decision was affected by his fluctuation of mood.
不然	把它放下，bu4ran2我就揍你。	Put that down or else I'll smack you.
顿	这dun4美餐塞得我的胃很胀.	The rich meal lay heavy on my stomach.
时尚	短暂的shi2shang4：流行一时的狂热	A short-lived popular fashion; a fad.
根	换档时扳动这gen1操纵杆。	Move this lever to change gear.
战争	他们恋爱那时国家正进行著zhan4zheng1.	Their love affair was played out against the background of a country at war.
太太	今天早上我tai4tai5对我发脾气。	My wife was disagreeable to me this morning.
目前	这位教授mu4qian2正在写一本书。	The professor is presently writing a book.
行为	他为他的xing2wei2感到惭愧。	He is ashamed of his behavior.
断	这匹马的后腿duan4了。	The hind leg of this horse was broken.
遗憾	很yi2han4，你没有得到那份工作。	I'm sorry that you didn't get the job.
碰	不要peng4它，它容易破碎。	Don't touch it, it breaks easily.
阻止	没有人能够zu3zhi3他去冒险。	Nobody can prevent him from running the risk.
数	这些页shu4次序不对。	The pages aren't in proper order.
彼此	我们bi3ci3误解了: 我谈的是天文学, 你谈的是占星术.	We're at cross-purposes: I'm talking about astronomy, you're talking about astrology.
吻	她在姑姑的脸颊上匆匆wen3了一下。	She gave her aunt a quick peck on the cheek.
实现	工业现代化分20年逐步shi2xian4.	The modernization of the industry was phased over a 20-year period.
时刻	早晨八九点钟是交通的高峰shi2ke4.	Traffic reaches a peak between 8 and 9 in the morning.
婚礼	他们的hun1li3由当地牧师主持。	Their nuptials were performed by the local priest.
除非	chu2fei1出现奇迹, 不然我们现在是输定了.	Short of a miracle, we're certain to lose now.
信任	产生这问题的根源在於缺乏xin4ren4.	The root of the problem is lack of trust.
坚强	她在这一切不幸中表现得很jian1qiang2。	She bore up well against all these misfortunes.
除夕	chu2xi1之夜，各条大街一片灯火辉煌。	On New Year's eve, every main street was a blaze of light.
组织	网球俱乐部zu3zhi1了一次舞会。	The tennis club has organized a dance.
年代	在三十nian2dai4有很多麻疯病人。	There were many people with leprosy around the age of thirty.
吐	马克。tu3温写的作品你知道多少？	How much do you know about the works of Mark Twin.
冠军	获得guan4jun1的那个弓箭手很年轻。	The archer who won the game is very young.
治疗	他由于烧伤，被送入医院zhi4liao2。	He was admitted to the hospital suffering from burns.
合作	两个村子he2zuo4修建了这座水库。	The tow villages joined forces to build the reservoir.
果然	我说过要有这样的事，guo3ran2如此。	I say it will happen, and sure enough it do.
网络	你可以接通全国计算机wang3luo4。	You can plug into the national computer network.
人员	这个公司又有新ren2yuan2加入。	Several new members have come into this corporation.
受伤	他就是那个多处shou4shang1的人。	He is the person with multiple injuries.
价值	如果你作弊，考试及格也没什么jia4zhi2。	There is little merit in passing the examination if you cheated.
分析	对销售额的仔细fen1xi1显示出明显的地区差别。	Close analysis of sales figures showed clear regional variations.
利用	他们充分li4yong4旅馆的设备.	They took full advantage of the hotel's facilities.
答应	公司da1ying5给工人增加工资.	The firm promised a wage increase to the workers/promised the workers a wage increase.
满足	我们决不能man3zu2于自己的成绩。	We must not be complacent about our achievements.
意外	经追查可发现这起yi4wai4事件系由种种原因造成的。	The accident can be traced to various causes.
成熟	未cheng2shu2的苹果是酸的。	Green apples are sour.
愿望	假设你有三个yuan4wang4, 这三个yuan4wang4都是什麽呢?	If you had three wishes what would you choose?
如今	ru2jin1女子再也不接受此种待遇了.	Women today no longer accept such treatment.
一旦	你yi1dan4了解她, 就喜欢她了.	You'll like her once you get to know her.
手术	外科医生做了shou3shu4。	The surgeon has performed the operation.
赶快	gan3kuai4！会议已开始了，我们迟到了。	Get a move on! We're already late for the meeting.
市场	我们的产品在国内shi4chang3上都很畅销。	Our product command a good market both at home and abroad.
立即	我们要他li4ji2离开.	We ordered him to leave immediately.
黄金	所得税比huang2jin1把更多的美国人造成了说谎者。	The income tax have make more liar out of the american people than gold have.
撞	船被岩石zhuang4坏了。	The ship was battered against the rocks.
烂	猫把我的围巾撕lan4了。	The cat has torn my scarf to ribbons.
反应	有些人在爬高山时会发生高山fan3ying4。	Some people develop altitude sickness when climbing high mountains.
伟大	爱因斯坦是个wei3da4的科学天才。	Einstein was a great scientific genius.
婚姻	我父亲决不会同意我们的hun1yin1的。	My father will never give his consent to our marriage.
领导	ling3dao3严厉惩罚了那个犯错误的人。	The leader chastised that man who made a mistake.
作品	这是独一无二的艺术zuo4pin3。	It's a unique work of art.
彻底	这男孩已che4di3恢复健康。	The boy has quite recovered.
移动	我连yi2dong4双脚的力气都几乎没有了。	I have hardly enough strength left to move my feet.
圈	月亮每28天绕地球一quan1.	The moon circles the earth every 28 days.
公寓	我们被这所gong1yu4的精致的室内装潢设计吸引。	We are fascinated by the delicate interior design of the apartment.
角色	他对他扮演的jue2se4理解得细微之至。	He understands his part to a miracle.
臭	那条鱼腐烂得发chou4了.	That rotten fish stinks.
风格	将这两首诗（的feng1ge2）加以比较.	Compare (the style of) the two poems.
呼吸	鱼离开水就不能hu1xi1。	Fish cannot breathe out of water.
勇气	有yong3qi4做某事，有胆量做某事	Have the nerve for [to do]sth.
包括	保险单内容不bao1kuo4正常使用所导致的损坏。	The insurance policy do not cover damage cause by normal wear and tear.
人物	她很快成为大家注意的ren2wu4。	She soon becomes the centre of attention.
表达	她鼓励她biao3da2个人深处的感情。	She encourages her to express her innermost feelings.
运气	这些天我yun4qi4好, 一切都进行得很顺利。	I am in luck these days and everything goes well.
自从	zi4cong2他去年夏天离去, 我们就失去了联系。	We have lost contact with him since he left last summer.
俱乐部	他上学时有时到羽毛球ju4le4bu4去。	He went to the badminton club at times during his school days.
命运	她不知道以后等待她的将是什么ming4yun4。	She wondered what fate had in store for her next.
拥抱	见面时，他yong1bao4了她。	He enfolded her when they met.
相当	他总的健康状况xiang1dang1令人满意。	His general state of health is fairly satisfactory.
显然	你xian3ran2不大明白办事的手续, 我很快就给你解释清楚.	You're clearly rather muddled about office procedures but I'll soon straighten you out.
出色	他从一个害羞的人转变为chu1se4的政治家。	He changed from a shy person into quite a politician.
欣赏	我对她的工作不太xin1shang3。	I am not a great admirer of her work.
问候	“早上好。”我说，但他并没有回答我的wen4hou4。	Good morning,"" I said, but he didn't return the greeting.
基本	教会应当就ji1ben3道德问题多做出些榜样.	The Church should give more of a lead on basic moral issues.
资料	这本书包含你所需的一切zi1liao4。	This book contains all the information you need.
创造	有些人相信上帝chuang4zao4了世界。	Some people believe that God created the world.
刺激	希望降低税率这一措施能ci4ji1经济进一步增长.	It is hoped the tax cuts will act as a stimulant to further economic growth.
训练	这位冠军为了下一场比赛正在进行xun4lian4。	The champion is in training for his next fight.
风景	那feng1jing3美丽得无法形容。	The scenery was beautiful beyond expression.
灰	hui1狗跑得很快。	Greyhound can run very fast.
恢复	有些人希望hui1fu4死刑.	Some people would like to see the death penalty come back.
怀念	我常huai2nian4早晨你给我送茶的情景!	I miss you bringing me cups of tea in the mornings!
碎	这杯子sui4了。	The glass shattered.
娱乐	这个旅馆为住客提供了各种各样的yu2le4活动。	The hotel offers its guest a wide variety of amusement.
造成	这个错误是由印刷工zao4cheng2的。	This error is made by printer.
报道	据天气预报bao4dao4, 明天晴.	Tomorrow is going to be fine according to the forecast.
朝	【谚】一chao2得了利，痛苦便忘记。	Pain is forgotten where gain follows.
想念	我真的会xiang3nian4你的。	I'm really going to miss you.
达到	我们会尽力来da2dao4世界水平。	We'll do all we can to catch up the world level.
吹	喇叭chui1响了.	The trumpet sounded.
显示	他的花白的头发xian3shi4出了他的年龄。	His hoary hair showed his age.
产品	公司冒险将chan3pin3削价出售。	The company took a gamble by cutting the price of their products.
威胁	油轮需求量的下降使很多工作职位受到wei1xie2。	A fall in demand for oil tankers has put jobs in jeopardy.
文件	我们要对wen2jian4仔细审阅後再作决定.	The document will need a careful going-over before we make a decision.
逃	那鹿tao2入了丛林深处。	The deer escaped to the deep forest.
数据	我已经把shu4ju4输入到计算机中了。	I have inputted the data into a computer.
公主	魔术师把青蛙变成了gong1zhu3。	The magician transformed the frog into a princess.
追求	他zhui1qiu2简已有六个月之久.	He had been courting Jane for six months.
公平	一些人反对说，新税法不gong1ping2。	Some people objected that the new tax law was unfair.
导致	暴乱dao3zhi43 个年轻人被捕。	The riot led to the arrest of three young men.
墙	qiang2上有两张图画吗？	Are there two pictures on the wall?
炒	我用普通油还是黄油来chao3洋葱呢?	Shall I use oil or butter for frying the onions?
脑袋	他摔著了nao3dai5.	He fell and hit his head.
命令	营长ming4ling4士兵们沿铁轨排开。	The battalion commander lined his men along the railway.
在于	热处理的目的zai4yu2使钢材更好地适用于某一特定的用途。	The object of heat treatment is to make the steel better suited for some specific application.
锁	他把钥匙插入suo3里转动。	He put the key in the lock and turned it.
凭	信用证ping2汇票付款。	L/c is payable against your draft.
到达	他是第一个dao4da2那里的。	He was the first to be there.
奋斗	他们虽然没有得到官方的支持, 但仍继续fen4dou4.	Though they lack official support they continue their struggle.
信号	xin4hao4响时，人人脱帽致敬。	Everyone uncovered when the signal sounded.
石头	道路被一块大shi2tou5堵住了。	The road was blocked by a huge rock.
切	外科医生首先qie4开血管。	First the surgeon performed the section of the blood vessel.
破坏	暴风雨的po4huai4力是巨大的。	The destructive force of the storm is huge.
思考	社会上的罪恶是值得si1kao3的。	The society's evils are worth meditative.
道理	他从dao4li5上解释了这个老人的行为。	He explained the behavior of the old man within reason.
以来	从上个世纪yi3lai2人们一直耕种着这块土地。	This land has been in cultivation since the last century.
接近	逐字翻译不一定最jie1jin4原义。	A literal translation is not always the closest to the original meaning.
私人	他在一家si1ren2企业工作。	He works in a private enterprise.
产生	有时我们可以阻止云chan3sheng1雨。	Sometimes we can prevent a cloud from producing rain.
王子	那wang2zi3骑著乳白色的马.	The prince rode a ,milk-white horse.
幻想	我看到的不可能是鬼－－一定是huan4xiang3的东西吧。	I can't have seen a ghost it must have been imagination.
取消	比赛因天气不好只得qu3xiao1。	The match had to be cancelled because of bad weather.
天空	tian1kong1慢慢由蓝色变为红色。	The sky slowly changed from blue to red.
玩具	wan2ju4店就是幼儿的乐园.	The toy-shop is a fairyland for young children.
升	该液体的体积为5sheng1.	The liquid was 5 litres in volume.
专家	zhuan1jia1已经确认了该画是真迹。	The experts have vouched for the painting's authenticity.
员工	＂老板威胁说要解雇所有同情罢工的yuan2gong1，但是这不过是恐吓而已。＂	The boss threatened to dismiss all the employees who had expressed their sympathy for the strike, but it's all bluff.""
立刻	我给他这一机会，他li4ke4抓住不放。	When I gave him the chance, he grabbed it at once.
通常	我们tong1chang2赊销货物。	It is usual for us to sell on credit.
项目	对文盲的教育服务xiang4mu4扩大	An educational outreach to illiterate adults.
怀孕	是另一个男子使她huai2yun4的.	She is/got pregnant by another man.
冻	软dong4是一种甜食。	Custard is a kind of sweet sauce.
胃	他wei4不舒服。	He has an upset stomach.
假装	劫匪jia3zhuang1成保安人员进入银行。	The robbers got into the bank by masquerading as security men.
部门	管理bu4men2正在设法提高生产率.	The management are looking for ways of improving productivity.
投资	你最好不要冒险tou2zi1这么多。	You had better not invest so much money at your peril.
温柔	她对孩子和动物总是很wen1rou2。	She always shows kindness to children and animals.
承受	冰太薄，cheng2shou4不住你们的重量。	The ice is too thin to bear your weight.
摆	bai3锤能bai3动.	A pendulum oscillates.
敌人	他对di2ren2有强烈的仇恨。	He has a strong animosity against his enemy.
地区	广大的di4qu1均已变成沙漠.	Vast areas of land have become desert.
状况	他正在看一篇关于道路zhuang4kuang4的报告。	He is reading a report of the state of the roads.
安慰	在我苦恼的时候，她来an1wei4我。	She comforted me in my distress.
重复	这项研究仅仅是chong2fu4别人已经做过的工作。	This research merely duplicates work already done elsewhere.
感激	非常gan3ji1你帮助了我们.	I'm much obliged to you for helping us.
广场	部队已（在guang3chang3上）集合.	The troops mustered (on the square).
离婚	她提出了li2hun1申请。	She filed a petition for divorce.
思想	她坐在那里努力集中si1xiang3准备发言.	She sat trying to gather her thoughts before making her speech.
制作	原始人用尖石块和兽骨为自己zhi4zuo4原始的工具。	Primitive man made himself primitive tools from sharp stones and animal bones.
对待	我们对医生这样dui4dai4我们感到不满。	We are unhappy about the way the doctor treated us.
庆祝	以音乐和舞蹈qing4zhu4他的胜利。	His victory was celebrated with music and dancing.
智慧	她的zhi4hui4比我们猜想的要高。	She has more intelligence than we suspected her to possess.
气氛	窗帘同房间的qi4fen1不协调。	The curtain is not in tune with the atmosphere of the room.
组合	我们把能想到的各种zu3he2都试了一遍.	We tried it in every conceivable combination.
期间	在轰炸qi1jian1许多人受了重伤.	Many people were fatally wounded during the bomb attacks.
冒险	开办这样的公司有点mao4xian3.	Setting up this business was a bit of a gamble.
沉默	如果你被捕，你有权保持chen2mo4。	If you are arrested you have the right to remain silent.
心脏	内脏尤指xin1zang4、肝脏和肺等动物的内脏或内部器官	An animal's viscera or internal organs, especially the heart, liver, and lungs.
老鼠	储存的　物经常受损坏, 尤其是lao3shu3为患最甚.	Stores of grain are frequently attacked by pests, especially rats.
尽量	我jin3liang4找些东西给你穿。	I'll try and rake out something for you to wear.
权利	这些quan2li4不受新法规的影响。	These rights are unaffected by the new laws.
传统	这chuan2tong3有多久的历史了？	How far does the tradition go back?
个性	他的ge4xing4体现在他的文章中。	His personality comes through in his writing.
对象	多个数据dui4xiang4的结构化汇集，以形成一种数据类型。	A structured collection of data objects, forming a data type.
抱怨	她总是bao4yuan4伦敦缺少体育设施.	She's always lamenting the lack of sports facilities in town.
话题	政治和宗教是人们平常交谈的主要hua4ti2。	Politics and religion are daily topics of conversation.
资源	zi1yuan2管理是一项重要的经营技能。	Resources management is an important business skill.
主人	这条狗始终忠于它的zhu3ren2。	The dog remained faithful to his master.
团	那个胆小鬼被tuan2里开除了。	The coward was drummed out of the regiment.
摸	这缎子mo1起来很滑溜。	The satin feels smooth.
无所谓	你愿意告诉谁就告诉谁--对我来说都wu2suo3wei4.	Tell whoever you like it makes no difference to me.
度过	我熟悉伦敦，那是我du4guo4童年的地方。	I know London as the place where I spent my childhood.
狮子	shi1zi5长着黄褐色棕毛。	A lion has tawny mane.
吵架	我们chao3jia4时她总是占上风.	She always gets the better of our quarrels.
单位	dan1wei4面积上的发光强度。	The luminous intensity on unit area.
确认	全国人民que4ren4了他的王权.	The country acknowledged his claim to the throne.
奇迹	qi2ji4是与大自然的力量相对的.	Miracles are contrary to nature.
规则	违背违背一项法律、gui1ze2或协议；违反	A violation, as of a law, a regulation, or an agreement; a breach.
强烈	他的计划遭到qiang2lie4的反对。	His plan was opposed with fierceness.
媒体	新闻界收集，出版，传播或播送新闻的mei2ti3和机构的总称	The entirety of media and agencies that collect, publish, transmit, or broadcast the news.
不如	风景bu4ru2你描述的那么好。	The scene is nothing like what you described.
自动	装配过程的这一部分现在是全zi4dong4的.	This part of the assembly process is now fully automated.
紧急	我们在海上jin3ji2降落.	We crash-landed in the drink.
政治	在他家里一提zheng4zhi4就犯忌.	Any mention of politics is taboo in his house.
企业	这家qi3ye4是信用证的申请者。	The enterprise is an applicant of this credit.
插	她往瓶子里cha1了些小花。	She arranged some flowerets in the vase.
教练	这位足球jiao4lian4受到了当地报纸的批评。	The football coach was criticized by the local paper.
持续	这个城市的人口在chi2xu4下降。	There has been a steady decrease in population in this city.
细节	他非常仔细, 把每一个xi4jie2都核对过了。	He was careful enough to check up every detail.
特殊	我们可以根据你的te4shu1需要设计保险单。	We can tailor the insurance policy according to your special needs.
集中	我累了就无法ji2zhong1精力工作。	I can't concentrate on my work when I'm tired.
程度	她用功的cheng2du4是我的三倍。	She studies three times as hard as I.
国王	群众聚集在guo2wang2要经过的街道旁。	Crowds massed along the road where the king would pass.
独立	她很du2li4，所以拒绝一切金钱上的资助。	She is so independent that she refused all pecuniary aid.
据说	ju4shuo1法国人是世界上最浪漫的民族之一。	It is said that Frenchmen are among the most romantic people in the world.
从此	大多数中国人认为他将cong2ci3不受欢迎。	Most Chinese think he will be therefrom unwelcome.
实话	她在最不合适的时候讲出了shi2hua4。	She plumped out the truth at the oddest times.
机器	那儿的ji1qi4是新型的。	The machine there is of a new type.
年纪	她一点儿也不像那么大nian2ji4.	She doesn't look her age at all.
接触	我的手指jie1chu4那软膏之後就疼起来了.	My fingers are beginning to prick after touching that paste.
列车	伦敦运输公司在交通高峰时 间增开加班lie4che1.	London Transport run extra trains during the rush-hour.
武术	段在东方wu3shu4中，黑腰带的级别精通达12级中的任一级，如柔道和空手道	Any of12 levels of proficiency at the grade of black belt in martial arts such as judo and karate.
宣布	老师xuan1bu4她将惩罚那个坏学生。	The teacher blazoned she would punish the bad student.
制造	这些手套是为严寒地区zhi4zao4的。	The gloves were designed for extremely cold climates.
善良	我丈夫是一个shan4liang2的人。	My husband is a kind person.
无数	我告诉她wu2shu4次了.	I've told her countless times.
相处	我觉得她非常冷淡, 不好xiang1chu3.	I find her very aloof and unfriendly.
和平	所有爱好he2ping2的人都强烈反对军备竞赛。	All those who love peace are strongly against arms race.
玻璃	他的脚上扎了一些碎bo1li5屑。	Some splinters of glass had got into his feet.
工具	那是个小巧玲珑的开罐头gong1ju4。	It's an artful little gadget for opening tins.
尽力	他正在jin4li4弄明白他的意思。	He is trying his best to understand his meaning.
洞	酸把地毯烧了个dong4。	The acid burnt a hole in the carpet.
平静	在ping2jing4的海面上航行我感到很舒服。	I felt comfortable sailing on the smoothness of the sea.
保险	bao3xian3公司将赔偿他的损失。	The insurance company will recompense his loss.
士兵	我们必须征募更多shi4bing1。	We must enlist more men.
避免	你最好不要碰这些衣服，好bi4mian3传染病。	You'd better not touch these coats to avoid contagion.
进步	他学习上jin4bu4很快。	He made rapid progress in his studies.
闯	农夫拿著大棒追赶chuang3进来的人。	The farmer came after the intruder with a big stick.
对手	在网球赛中，他们是dui4shou3。	They were adversaries in the tennis match.
脖子	把围巾围在你的bo2zi5上.	Wrap a scarf round your neck.
软件	我们只经营硬件而不经营ruan3jian4.	We deal in hardware but not software.
形象	我们该怎样来改善自己的xing2xiang4呢？	How can we improve our image?
建筑	市议会批准了这项jian4zhu4计划。	The city council approved the building plan.
尽快	现在每个人都想要jin3kuai4发财致富。	Everyone is trying to get rich quick nowadays.
纪念	这个战场被视为圣地以ji4nian4战死在这里的战士。	This battle field is consecrated to the memory of the soldiers who died here.
角度	试从不同的jiao3du4来看这件事。	Try looking at the affair from a different angle.
戒指	她坐在那儿捻弄手指上的jie4zhi5.	She sat twiddling the ring on her finger.
屋子	他兴高采烈地离开了wu1zi5。	He left the house in high spirits.
倒霉	（你）假期得病真dao3mei2.	It was very hard luck (on you) to get ill on your holiday.
始终	我shi3zhong1认为帮助别人是重要的。	I always make a point of giving a hand to others.
主动	这个国家应该zhu3dong4提出禁止核武器.	It's up to this country to take the initiative in banning nuclear weapons.
假如	jia3ru2再让我逮著你偷东西, 看我怎麽揍你!	If I catch you stealing again, I'll beat the daylights out of you!
轻易	他很容易受伤, 因为他很qing1yi4就相信别人。	He is likely to get hurt because he always trusts people easily.
建立	该演员与观众jian4li4了密切的关系.	The actor developed a close rapport with his audience.
忽然	那男孩hu1ran2哭了起来。	The boy began crying all of a sudden.
借口	我们得找个jie4kou3不去参加聚会。	We'll have to find a pretext for not going to the party.
争取	她竭力zheng1qu3自己想要的东西。	She fought like a tiger to get what she wanted.
稳定	他的情况wen3ding4下来了.	His condition has now stabilized.
提问	在报社记者七嘴八舌地高声向他ti2wen4时，他始终表现得镇定自若。	He kept as cool as a cucumber as the newspaper reporters shouted questions at him at once.
物质	精髓赋予特性或增添活力的wu4zhi4或性质	A substance or quality that imparts identity and vitality; essence.
单独	父亲答应让他的儿子dan1du2出国旅行。	The father allowed (=permitted) his son to travel abroad alone.
似的	似乎什么事也没发生过shi4de5。	It seems as if he had been working for hours.
巨大	这出新戏获得了ju4da4的成功。	The new play was a spectacular success.
一辈子	他yi1bei4zi5都住在这里。	He all lives here all one's life.
好奇	我对他在哪儿感到很hao4qi2。	I am curious about where he is.
胸	他的胡须垂到xiong1前.	His beard fell to his chest.
总之	zong3zhi1，我们认为我们都同情剧中的女主人公。	In the final analysis I think our sympathy lies with the heroine of the play.
范围	这件事完全超出了他的生活fan4wei2了.	It took him completely out of his sphere.
背景	学术界人士有学术观点或学术bei4jing3的人	A person who has an academic viewpoint or a scholarly background.
时期	在困难shi2qi1我们过着艰苦的生活。	We led a hard life in times of stress.
圆	yuan2的轴线是其直径.	The axis of a circle is its diameter.
理论	深奥的形而上学li3lun4	A deep metaphysical theory.
总算	我zong3suan4把你看透了，你这个骗子！	I have found you out at last, you cheat!
过分	他对他的新制度提出guo4fen4的要求。	He makes the most extravagant claims for his new system.
身材	矮小的人shen1cai2短小的人	A person small in stature.
陌生	在这个mo4sheng1的地方，我觉得很不自在。	I don't feel at ease in the strange place.
亲自	她错在没有qin1zi4与他见面。	She erred in failing to meet him in person.
摄影	我决定学she4ying3以便更能欣赏自然的美。	I've decided to learn photography in order that I may better appreciate the beauty of nature.
去世	他的qu4shi4使我们非常悲伤。	His decease made us very sad.
兔子	那只鹰向tu4zi5猛扑下来。	The eagle dived down on the rabbit.
飘	雪从屋顶上的裂缝piao1进屋里。	Snow sifted through the crack in the roof into the room.
公开	他只是偶尔一次gong1kai1自己的观点。	Only rarely does he let his own views become public.
委屈	我工作时间是别人的两倍，可拿的钱却比谁都少，我感到十分wei3qu5。	I felt very hard done by when I got less money than anybody else, and I'd worked twice as long.
请求	我们曾qing3qiu2法院调查。	We made an application to the court for an inquiry.
宿舍	他不久就逐渐习惯了su4she4的生活并交了两三个朋友。	He soon gets accustom to dormitory life and make two or three friend.
掌握	他zhang3wo4会议可真有一套.	His handling of the meeting was quite a virtuoso performance.
土豆	我们有时候吃大米, 不吃tu3dou4.	We sometimes eat rice instead of potatoes.
程序	你很快就会对这些cheng2xu4完全熟悉了.	You will soon become fully acquainted with the procedures.
蛇	she2盘绕在树上。	The snake coiled itself around the tree.
销售	该杂志的xiao1shou4量为2000份。	The distribution of the magazine is 2000.
投入	我们应该怎样tou2ru4学校生活？	How should we involve ourselves in school life?
评价	他在同事中受到的ping2jia4很高。	He is highly estimated among his colleagues.
批	她一晚上都在pi1试卷.	She spent the evening marking examination papers.
缺乏	他工作不错，但似乎que1fa2信心。	He is good at his job but he seems to lack confidence.
出口	我与他合伙做chu1kou3生意。	I enter into partnership with him to do export business.
观察	我们很难guan1cha2月亮的另一边。	The far side of the moon is difficult for us to observe.
说不定	我想我能来，但还shuo1bu5ding4。	I think I can come, but don't rely on it.
说服	这个商人shuo1fu2我买了他的货物。	This trader persuaded me into buying his goods.
调整	由于目前的价格情况，我方不得不tiao2zheng3报价。	Due to the present price level, we cannot help but adjust our offer.
逃避	吉姆在物理考试中作弊却tao2bi4了惩罚, 麦克则受到责备。	Jim got away with cheating in the physics test, while Mike was scolded.
趁	犯人chen4着天黑逃跑了。	The criminal escaped under the cover of darkness.
迎接	孩子们飞跑过去ying2jie1妈妈.	The children flew to meet their mother.
显得	在日光下看, 颜色xian3de5不同.	The colours look different when viewed in daylight.
熬夜	为了完成报告我打算ao2ye4不睡。	I am going to stay up late to finish my paper.
相关	我也不相信我们的xiang1guan1力量正在增长。	I don't believe that our relative strength is increasing.
搜索	警察sou1suo3了在周围六英里以内的树林各处。	The police searched all the woods within a six-mile radius.
高级	你们参加gao1ji2程度英语考试要读哪些必修课本?	What are your set books for English A Level?
地位	他是一个有重要社会di4wei4的人。	He is a person of important social status.
后果	这样一种错误可能导致灾难性的hou4guo3。	Such a mistake would perhaps lead to disastrous consequences.
深刻	他对他的母亲的敬爱给了我shen1ke4的印象。	He pressed me profound in his respecting and loving to his mother.
资格	玛丽没有申请助学金的zi1ge2.	Mary is not eligible for an award.
营养	这些蔬菜中的ying2yang3部分全都给煮掉了。	All the goodness has been boiled off the vegetables.
把握	你绝对有ba3wo4?	You're absolutely certain?
手指	针刺进了她的shou3zhi3。	The needle pierced her finger.
幅	这fu2画歪向左边了.	The picture is slanted to the left.
应用	这项研究成果能ying4yong4於新的技术开发方面.	The results of this research can be applied to new developments in technology.
毕竟	别怪他打碎那个花瓶, 他bi4jing4是小孩子嘛。	Don't blame him for breaking that vase; after all he is a child.
何必	我只是问你一个问题。你he2bi4对我这么凶。	I only asked you a question. There's no need to bite my head off.
哪怕	na3pa4是个有经验的登山者也会馅入困境。	Even an experienced cumber will get into trouble.
规矩	在去巴林之前我必须先弄懂、熟记阿拉伯人的习惯和gui1ju5。	I must read up on Arab customs before I go to Bahrain.
事物	他观察shi4wu4很正确.	He sees things in their right perspective.
欧洲	他们将去Ou1zhou1，不是吗？	They will go to Europe, won't they?
告别	我们向他们gao4bie2後就离开了.	Bidding them adieu we departed.
人口	发展的主要障碍是这个国家ren2kou3太多。	The main impediment to development is the country's large population.
表面	这方案biao3mian4上看来似乎很实际。	The scheme seems on the surface to be quite practical.
重大	他的严重的错误导致了zhong4da4的损失。	His costly mistake resulted in severe loss.
家乡	她生在伦敦, 但现在把巴黎看成是她的jia1xiang1.	She was born in London, but she now looks on Paris as her home.
服装	这件传统fu2zhuang1是靛蓝色的。	This traditional costume is of indigo blue.
当地	实际上我对dang1di4的法律并不熟。	I am not really familiar with the local laws.
平	他已把木板刨ping2。	He has planed the plank smooth.
设备	电脑控制板上有许多小灯和电子she4bei4。	There are many lights and electrical instruments on the computer console.
完整	他的辩论因被打断而显得不wan2zheng3。	The interruption fragmented his argument.
沟通	父母亲常会发觉难於跟他们的小孩gou1tong1。	Parents often find it difficult to communicate with their children.
废话	我对这些fei4hua4烦透了，叫他直说吧！	I'm tired of this nonsense. Make him talk turkey.
决赛	裁判员判定jue2sai4双方分数相同.	The judges awarded both finalists equal points.
牙齿	我牙疼，因为我的一颗ya2chi3上有个洞。	I have a toothache because there is a cavity in one of my teeth.
毛病	机器出了mao2bing5, 工作便停顿下来.	Work was brought/came to a halt when the machine broke down.
自私	他很zi4si1, 不想把汽车借给我.	He's too selfish to think of lending me his car.
精力	他的jing1li4似乎正在衰退。	His energy seemed to ebb.
姿势	她用zi1shi4表示不赞成.	She gestured her disapproval.
矛盾	他对那些事情的说法前後mao2dun4.	His account of the events was inconsistent.
初级	宇宙探索仍处于chu1ji2阶段	Space exploration is still in its infancy.
蝴蝶	毛虫能变成hu2die2或蛾子.	Caterpillars change into butterflies or moths.
阶段	那孩子正经历困难的jie1duan4。	The child is going through a difficult phase.
敏感	别那么min3gan3，我不是在批评你。	Don't be so sensitive - I was not criticizing you.
古代	交错书写方法一种gu3dai4的书写方法，其中每一行交替地自右至左和自左至右书写	An ancient method of writing in which the lines are inscribed alternately from right to left and from left to right.
风险	她也在冒这样的feng1xian3.	She runs the same risks.
土地	水渠得穿过别的合作社的tu3di4。	The canal had to cut through the land of other co-ops.
具体	您有关于处理这桩索赔案的ju4ti3意见吗？	Do you have any specific idea to settled the claim?
病毒	有些bing4du2繁殖得很迅速.	Some viruses incubate very rapidly.
关闭	因矿井已guan1bi4, 镇上一片死气沉沉.	The town is dead now the mine has closed.
教训	我再也不做那种事了, 我已有了jiao4xun5!	I'll never do that again; I've learned my lesson!
伙伴	huo3ban4, 该你叫牌了.	It's your call, partner.
隔壁	你听见没听见昨晚ge2bi4闹翻天了?	Did you hear the carryings-on next door last night?
道德	我对宗教问题和dao4de2问题不感兴趣。	I am unconcerned with questions of religion or morality.
原则	他为了自己的革命yuan2ze2而蒙受苦难。	He suffered for his revolutionary principles.
观点	他们的guan1dian3不正确，是吗?	Their view isn't' right, is it?
卡车	ka3che1突然转向以免撞著那孩子.	The lorry swerved sharply to avoid the child.
一致	决议案获yi1zhi4通过.	The resolution was carried nem con.
烫	别摸那个盘子--tang4极了!	Don't touch that dish it's very hot!
平衡	盈亏ping2heng2点尤指在出售货物或服务的水平上，投资的收益与投资的数量恰好相等的一点	The point, especially the level of sales of a good or service, at which the return on investment is exactly equal to the amount invested.
蔬菜	你要把shu1cai4煮熟还是生吃？	Do you want your vegetables cooked or raw?
地震	di4zhen4对这个城市造成了大破坏。	The earthquake wreaked havoc on the city.
主任	他己被悄悄地免掉zhu3ren4的职务。	He has been quietly booted out as chief.
人才	他们最需要的是管理ren2cai2。	What they need most is managerial talent.
肩膀	子弹穿透他的jian1bang3.	The bullet went clean through his shoulder.
悄悄	他像老虎一样qiao1qiao1潜近他的猎物。	He moved like a tiger stalking its prey.
资金	这个计画因缺乏zi1jin1而难以实现.	The project was hamstrung by lack of funds.
分别	关于销售帐单，请fen1bie2列明各项收支，并请将款项fen1bie2汇交本公司。	As to the account sales, you will please to furnish with a distinct account for each, and remit me for each.
发挥	他fa1hui1艺术天才, 成了雕刻家.	He turned his artistic gifts to good account by becoming a sculptor.
胃口	洋葱不适合我的wei4kou3。	Onion does not agree with me.
骨头	那条狗在花园里刨出一根gu3tou5.	The dog scratched up a bone in the garden.
权力	他渴望拥有quan2li4。	He was thirsty for power.
损失	森林火灾造成了巨大的sun3shi1。	The combustion in the forest generated great damage.
行业	他有才干能在本hang2ye4中首屈一指。	His ability carried him to the top of his profession.
等于	一公斤deng3yu2一千克。	One kilogram equals 1000 grams.
软	肥皂粉别用得太多, 这儿的水很ruan3.	Don't use much soap powder the water here is very soft.
匹	这pi3马的后腿断了。	The hind leg of this horse was broken.
形容	作用于心灵的，影响精神的作用于心灵或精神过程的。用于xing2rong2药品	Affecting the mind or mental processes. Used of a drug.
了不起	我们不能不佩服他那liao3bu5qi3的划桨本领.	We had to admire his prowess as an oarsman/his rowing prowess.
利益	共同的li4yi4把这两人联系到一起。	me in strength but Common interest brings these two together.
交往	那两个国家再次终止了jiao1wang3。	Those two countries have broken off diplomatic relations again.
休闲	对xiu1xian2有明显作用的另一产业是娱乐。	Another industry obviously devoted to leisure is entertainment.
催	这活儿需要细心, cui1不得.	This work needs care; it mustn't be hurried.
现代	我在写xian4dai4英语的语法书.	I'm writing a grammar of modern English.
消费	可xiao1fei4的源泉	An expendable source.
驾驶	他强调小心jia4shi3的重要性。	He emphasized the importance of careful driving.
文字	约翰和利兹二人把奖金分了--约翰用他分到的那一半奖金购买了wen2zi4处理机.	John and Liz shared the prize money between them John used his half to buy a word processor.
计算	你可得安静点儿了，要不然我没法ji4suan4了。	Do keep quiet or you'll throw me out in my calculations.
从前	这本书cong2qian2很出名, 现在没人看了.	This book was once famous, but nobody reads it today.
装修	我们若决定购买这座别墅，就得重新进行zhuang1xiu1。	If we decide to buy the cottage we'll have to do it up.
豆腐	菠菜dou4fu5是我最爱吃的一种菜。	Spinach with bean curd is one of my favourite dishes.
实验	他们从这次shi2yan4中只得到了一组不完整的答案。	They only got an incomplete set of results from the experiment.
类型	那艘油轮遇难後，对同lei4xing2的油轮都进行了检验。	After the disaster, tests were carried out on the tanker's sister vessels.
砍	他们kan3倒了那棵树。	They cut down that tree.
天真	她的tian1zhen1只是一种伪装。	Her innocence is only an imitation.
至于	zhi4yu2无家可归的人，那就为数众多了。	As for the homeless, their name is legion.
配合	我们与警方pei4he2进行工作.	We are working in conjunction with the police.
合理	我愿意接受此品种，因为价格he2li3。	I'd like to accept this item, seeing (that) the price is reasonable.
尊敬	这些学生很zun1jing4他们的老师。	These students have reverence for their teacher.
内部	这抢劫案看来是nei4bu4的人干的.	The robbery appeared to have been an inside job.
迅速	编辑xun4su4将失事消息编入晚间新闻.	Editors rushed out a piece on the crash for the late news.
承担	我错了，我愿为此cheng2dan1责任。	I made a mistake and I will assume responsibility for it.
公布	人们期望财政大臣gong1bu4在本年度预算中削减税收。	The Chancellor of the Exchequer is expected to announce tax cuts in this year's budget.
仿佛	现在fang3fu2是秋天似的。	It seems as if it were autumn.
各自	聚会之後我们回到ge4zi4的房间.	After the party we all went off to our respective rooms.
雾	太阳驱散了wu4。	The sun dissipated the mist.
良好	清洁的衣服和liang2hao3的举止能给人以好感。	Clean clothes and good manners are prepossessing.
挣	我zheng1多少钱与你无关。	How much money I earn is none of your concern.
肌肉	锻炼身体能使ji1rou4结实。	Exercise will firm up your muscles.
光临	今晚有多布斯参议员guang1lin2, 我们感到十分荣幸.	We are very privileged to have Senator Dobbs with us this evening.
保留	在一些问题上，他仍然bao3liu2自己的意见。	He still reserved his opinion on some points.
经营	她和妹妹合股jing1ying2[他们合伙jing1ying2].	She worked in partnership with her sister/They worked in partnership.
宣传	反对吸烟的xuan1chuan2很多, 许多人因而戒了烟.	There has been so much propaganda against smoking that many people have given it up.
主持	今晚的女zhu3chi2之一是玛丽。	One of hostesses on tonight's show is Mary.
绕	地球是rao4轴旋转的吗？	Does the earth rotate on an axis?
光明	我的引导者呵，领导着我在guang1ming2逝去之前，进到沉静的山谷里去吧。在那里，一生的收获将会成熟为黄金的智慧。	Lead me, my Guide, before the light fades, into the valley of quiet where life's harvest mellows into golden wisdom.
色彩	这张照片没有真实地反映出花园的丰富se4cai3.	The photograph does not do full justice to (ie does not truly reproduce) the rich colours of the gardens.
表明	工人们已经biao3ming2反对这些方案.	Workers have already demonstrated their opposition to the plans.
因素	有很多yin1su4妨碍了我们实现计画.	Many factors militated against the success of our plan.
猴子	密林深处有群hou2zi5。	There is a group of monkeys in the innermost depths of the forest.
被子	母亲昨天补了一床bei4zi5。	Mother pieced a quilt yesterday.
万一	wan4yi1下雨，他们就不能去了。	In case of rain, they can't go.
卧室	她打开wo4shi4的门走了进去.	She opened the bedroom door and went in.
乐观	她即使在最糟糕的时候也总是非常le4guan1.	She was always optimistic, even when things were at their worst.
模仿	这演出纯粹是拙劣的mo2fang3.	The performance was an utter mockery.
平常	用不著穿讲究衣服－－就穿ping2chang2的衣服来吧。	Don't bother to dress up come as you are.
针对	这样说不是在zhen1dui4你的。	In saying this I am not aiming at you.
注册	这所学校有800名学生zhu4ce4.	This school has an enrolment of 800 pupils.
采访	那篇cai3fang3报道完全是对一诚实人的诽谤.	That interview was an absolute libel on a honest man.
金属	热的jin1shu3一冷（下来）就收缩.	The hot metal contracts as it cools (down).
形成	那些组织受到破坏，xing2cheng2一道疤痕。	The tissues have been destroyed and a scar has formed.
蹲	老人dun1在炉火旁.	The old man squatted (down) by the fire.
宠物	要想外出度假时, chong3wu4会成为牵累.	Pets can be a tie when you want to go away on holiday.
建设	此款项将用於jian4she4新学校（的开销）.	The money will go towards (the cost of) building a new school.
辞职	我星期五ci2zhi2後当天就离开了。	I resigned on Friday and left that same day.
自豪	新汽车是全家人引以zi4hao2之物.	The new car was the pride of the whole family.
支票	不要忘记在zhi1piao4上写上日期.	Don't forget to date your cheque.
发明	他获得了这项fa1ming2的专利权。	He got a patent for this invention.
燃烧	无人能否认火能ran2shao1的事实.	No one can deny the fact that fire burns.
优惠	中国的投资政策为外国投资者提供了you1hui4待遇。	China's investment policy provide preferential treatment to foreign investor.
合同	在he2tong2中写入了一项罚款条款.	A penalty clause was written into the contract.
薄	床单的中间部分磨bao2了。	The sheets have worn thin in the middle.
交换	读者来信版是读者们jiao1huan4意见的有益园地。	The letters page serves as a useful forum for the exchange of readers' views.
特色	狗吠声有te4se4地低沉的、粗哑的狗叫	The characteristically deep, gruff bark of a dog.
法院	那家破产的银行正被fa3yuan4调查。	The bank of bankruptcy is investigated by the court.
充分	我们经chong1fen4讨论决定迁往牛津.	After much debate, we decided to move to Oxford.
商业	家庭小shang1ye4遭到大公司的吞并.	Small family businesses are often gobbled up by larger firms.
摘	随便zhai1花的人会被罚款。	They will impose a fine on anyone who should pick flowers at will.
化学	高温hua4xue2的有关或表明高温下的hua4xue2活动的	Relating to or designating chemical activity at elevated temperatures.
工厂	这个大型gong1chang3里熔炼矿石。	The ore is smelted in this large factory.
玉米	耳穗谷类植物上带有种子的穗，如yu4mi3等	The seed-bearing spike of a cereal plant, such as corn.
商品	供求规律决定shang1pin3的价格.	The law of supply and demand governs the prices of goods.
痒	婴儿喜欢轻轻呵yang3和紧紧拥抱。	Babies like to be tickled and hugged.
补充	他演讲完又bu3chong1说了一些最新数字。	He added a brief postscript to his speech, giving the latest figures.
装饰	奇异风格，形状怪诞的图案一种自然的形式和奇异的图形以一种奇异或古怪的方式结合在一起的绘画雕塑和zhuang1shi4风格	A style of painting, sculpture, and ornamentation in which natural forms and monstrous figures are intertwined in bizarre or fanciful combinations.
克服	世界上任何困难他们都可以ke4fu2。	There will be no difficulty in the world that they cannot overcome.
舒适	我们生活在shu1shi4的环境中。	We are living in pleasant surroundings.
佩服	我pei4fu5他的坚韧不拔的勇气。	I admire him for his grim courage.
淡	请来两杯dan4的啤酒.	Two light ales, please.
假设	我想我很可能得到这份工作, 可是jia3she4鲍勃也申请的话, 那[他]可能使我的计画落空.	I think I'm likely to get the job, but if Bob applies for it too it/he could queer my pitch.
决心	她jue2xin1要打破陆上速度的世界纪录	She set out to break the world land speed record.
平均	工厂的ping2jun1支出是二千美元。	The average outgo of the factory is 2000 dollars.
结合	我们未来的计划必须与当前的实际相jie2he2。	Our future plans have to mesh with the present practices.
独特	我们每个人都以其du2te4的、有局限性的判断标准来看待这个问题。	Each of us views the problem from his particular and limited frame of reference.
退休	这位老人tui4xiu1前是警察局长。	The old man was a police commissioner before his retirement.
现象	根据表面xian4xiang4看问题有时是不可取的。	It's not always wise to go by appearances.
暗	暴风雨来临时，天空转an4。	The sky turned dark as the storm came near.
标志	路线沿途的biao1zhi4都十分清楚.	The markings along the route are quite plain.
糊涂	别说了, 要不你把我全搞hu2tu5了.	Stop talking, or you'll muddle me (up) completely.
培养	这所学校pei2yang3出了一些第一流的学者.	The school has turned out some first-rate scholars.
演讲	他的yan3jiang3很受欢迎。	His speech was favorably received.
博物馆	导游，向导引导游览者游览bo2wu4guan3等地并对所到的旅游点进行介绍的人	A person employed to conduct others, as through a museum, and give information about points of interest encountered.
生产	我们必须提高sheng1chan3水平。	We must increase production levels.
消化	粥有益于xiao1hua4。	Porridge is good for digestion.
限制	出售枪支受到许多法律xian4zhi4。	The sale of firearms is subject to many legal restrictions.
财产	他就cai2chan3与他们进行商议。	He bargained with them for the property.
过敏	guo4min3是身体对某些物质的不良反应。	An allergy is an adverse reaction of the body to certain substances.
偶然	我们只是在昨天才与她ou3ran2相遇.	We met her only yesterday, as it happens.
彩虹	你看到cai3hong2了吗？	Do you see rainbow?
文明	古埃及人曾经拥有高度wen2ming2。	The ancient Egyptians had advanced civilization.
激烈	这场辩论逐渐变成了ji1lie4的争吵.	The argument developed into a bitter quarrel.
采取	为恢复秩序必须cai3qu3严厉措施.	Drastic measures will have to be taken to restore order.
干脆	老年人或坐着谈话或玩纸牌或gan1cui4观看“活动区”的热闹场面。	The old people sit talking or play cards, or simply watch the sound and fury of the""activity area.""
豪华	享乐主义者喜爱hao2hua2奢侈生活的人；享乐主义者	A devotee to sensuous and luxurious living; an epicure.
开放	那个图书馆从上午9点到下午6点kai1fang4。	The library is open from 9 to 6.
代替	在这个食谱中, 可用蜂蜜dai4ti4食糖.	Honey can substitute for sugar in this recipe.
业务	金融家告诉我们不要再用那种方法做ye4wu4。	The financier told us not to do business in that way.
蜜蜂	mi4feng1蜇得很疼.	The bee-sting smarted terribly.
至今	3个月前，汽车出事故以后，这个姑娘就昏迷过去了，zhi4jin1还没有苏醒过来。	The girl went into a coma after the car accident three months ago, and has not woken up yet.
围巾	他用她的wei2jin1把她勒死了.	He strangled her with her own scarf.
嗓子	有些人生就一副好sang3zi5, 有些人则需要训练.	Some people have naturally beautiful voices while others need to be trained.
严肃	画中的年轻女孩带着一副沉思而又yan2su4的神态。	The young girl in the picture has a thoughtful and solemn mien.
最初	我们可以回到zui4chu1有关集资的问题上吗?	Could we get back to the original question of funding?
应付	把我ying4fu5你的钱都加在一起。	Add up all the money I owe you.
临时	我们拍战斗场面需要上百的lin2shi2演员.	We need hundreds of extras for the battle scenes.
指导	他在我的zhi3dao3下做这件事.	He did the work under my direction.
讽刺	总的说来, 这本书是feng3ci4性的.	Overall, the tone of the book is satirical/the book is satirical in tone.
成分	地球上空气的大部分cheng2fen4是氮气。	Nitrogen forms most of the Earth's air.
工人	所有gong1ren2都有公费医疗。	All the workers get free medical care.
合法	我说不好他的生意是否全部he2fa3。	I'm not sure that his business is strictly legitimate.
面临	现代社会的每个人都mian4lin2着激烈的竞争。	Everyone in modern society faces the keen competition.
指挥	他zhi3hui1分发食物给难民。	He directed the dispensation of food to the refugees.
播放	英国广播公司经常在节目空档时bo1fang4唱片。	The BBC often plays a record to fill in.
电池	我必须买一节新的干dian4chi2了。	I have to buy a new dry cell.
改善	这一行业的工作环境已有很大gai3shan4.	Working conditions in the industry have improved greatly.
形式	这个问题又以新的xing2shi4出现。	The problem has assumed a new form.
辣椒	la4jiao1的味道是怎样的？	How does chilli taste?
劝	能quan4得她把房子卖了吗?	Can she be persuaded to sell (the house)?
夸张	这剧的滑稽场面太kua1zhang1了.	The comic scenes in the play were overdone.
酱油	亲爱的，过街到那个商店去买些jiang4you2。	My darling, come over the street to that shop to buy some soy.
否认	她fou3ren4参与了这一密谋.	She disavows any part (ie says she was not involved) in the plot.
概念	他对我指的是什么没有一点儿gai4nian4。	He didn't have a slightest notion of what I meant.
吸收	有些食物比另一些食物容易xi1shou1。	Some foods are assimilated more easily than others.
电台	将通过dian4tai2转播这场比赛的实况解说。	A running commentary on the match will be broadcast over the radio.
纪录	他声称创造了新ji4lu4, 那可大有争议.	He made some very disputable claims about his record.
字母	英语的元音zi4mu3有a，e，i，o，u，有时也包括y。	The vowels in the English alphabet are a,e,i,o,u, and, sometimes, y.
伸	她把手shen1到喷泉中玩水。	She dabbled her hands in the fountain.
节省	我们的电费已经高得付不起了--得jie2sheng3些了.	Our electricity bills are higher than we can afford we must start to economize.
优势	她的美貌使她与其他女孩相比占了you1shi4。	Her good look gave her a pull over other girls.
项链	她沾湿了一块纸巾，轻轻擦去xiang4lian4上的灰尘。	She moistened a tissue and gently wiped the dust off the necklace.
编辑	bian1ji2删除了（文章的）最後一段.	The editor deleted the last paragraph (from the article).
全面	她在医院里接受了quan2mian4检查。	She underwent a thorough examination at the hospital.
手套	我把shou3tao4落在公共汽车上了。	I've left my gloves on the bus.
联合	男校和女校lian2he2而组成了一所新的综合中学.	The boys' and girls' schools have (been) amalgamated to form a new comprehensive.
大厦	中银da4sha4在香港是最高的。	The building of the Bank of China is topmost in Hong Kong.
遵守	所有的人都应zun1shou3法律。	Everyone must abide by the law.
桃	tao2儿容易碰伤--要轻拿轻放.	Don't drop the peaches they bruise easily.
主席	担任zhu3xi2的人有责任安排会议。	The holder of the office of chairman is responsible for arranging meetings.
不足	这些商品现正供应bu4zu2，价格会上涨。	These goods are in short supply; the price will be high.
促进	他们为cu4jin4世界和平而努力.	They worked for the promotion of world peace.
相似	从整体来看, 这两幢楼是xiang1si4的。	The two buildings are similar on the whole.
保存	这些画bao3cun2的非常好。	The paintings were in an excellent state of preservation.
翅膀	那只鸟飞了过去, chi4bang3发出呼呼的声音.	The bird flew past, its wings whirring.
咨询	正常的zi1xun2费为50美元。	The standard charge for consultation be$50.
花生	他每次将一粒hua1sheng1扔进嘴里。	He tossed the peanuts into his mouth one at a time.
漏	他笨手笨脚的lou4接了球。	He fumbled the ball and then dropped it.
舅舅	我正打算出去一会儿，可我jiu4jiu5来了。	I was just going out for a bit when my uncle came.
沙滩	sha1tan1上挤满了作日光浴的人们.	The beach was crowded with sunbathers.
论文	他在医学会议上宣读了他的研究lun4wen2.	He read a paper at a medical conference on the results of his research.
股票	今日gu3piao4交投活跃, 价格看涨.	Share prices were buoyant today in active trading.
出席	全体会员都被要求chu1xi2这次晚会。	It is requested that all members be present at the party.
明确	她ming2que4表示反对此提案.	She made clear her objections/made it clear that she objected to the proposal.
课程	这个学期他选修了泛读ke4cheng2。	He selected an extensive reading course this term.
浓	她化妆太nong2.	She wears far too much paint.
模糊	这块石头上的字迹很mo2hu5.	The writing on the stone was very faint.
醋	cu4中含有cu4酸.	Vinegar contains acetic acid.
从事	他对语言的热爱促使他cong2shi4翻译工作.	His love of languages inclined him towards a career as a translator.
结论	你得出了什么jie2lun4？	What conclusion did you come to?
前途	预测电子工业的qian2tu2一片大好.	The prognosis for the future of the electronics industry is encouraging.
安装	机器an1zhuang1在混凝土基座上.	The machine rests on a bed of concrete.
难怪	nan2guai4她病了，她几乎什么都没吃。	No wonder she's ill. She eats next to nothing.
包裹	我想把这个bao1guo3马上交邮。	I want to get this package off at once.
捐	他们希望税juan1略微减少。	They are hoping for a small diminution in taxes.
强调	老师从一开始就qiang2diao4翻译准确性。	The teacher laid emphasis on the precision of the translation from the outset.
绳子	请把sheng2zi5挂在那根钉子上。	Please hook the rope over the nail.
集体	在劳资ji2ti3谈判制度下，工人作为一个团体同公司经理进行谈判。	In a system of collective bargaining, the workers as a group negotiate with the managers of the company.
牛仔裤	他穿着一条沾满油污的旧niu2zai3ku4。	He wears an oily old pair of jeans.
组成	水是由氢元素和氧元素zu3cheng2的.	Water is composed of the elements hydrogen and oxygen.
逐渐	她zhu2jian4对同伴心怀不满.	She began to weary of her companions.
胡说	他完全是hu2shuo1！	What utter rubbish he talks!
撕	他们与记者si1打起来。	They scuffled with reporters.
影子	树（在草地上）投下长长的ying3zi5.	The tree cast (ie caused there to be) a long shadow (on the grass).
迟早	你还是告诉她吧, 因为她chi2zao3会发觉的.	You should tell her, because she'll find out sooner or later.
谨慎	年轻姑娘必须言词jin3shen4，衣着得体，行为端庄。	Young girls must be modest in speech, dress and behavior.
日期	他们决定将下一次会议的ri4qi1提前。	They decided to bring forward the date of the next meeting.
预防	为了yu4fang2回来以前天就黑了，所以他带着手电筒。	He took a flashlight lest it should get dark before he returned.
拦	警察因麦克超速行驶而将他lan2下，但警告了他一下就将他放了。	The police stopped Mike for speeding but let him off with a caution.
善于	他不shan4yu2拼写。	He is poor at spelling.
称呼	我们打算cheng1hu5她为黛安娜.	We're going to call her Diana.
尾巴	当孔雀展现它华丽的wei3ba5时，孩子们大声叫着。	Children shout when they see the peacock spread his gorgeous tail.
物理	我喜欢化学甚于wu4li3。	I prefer chemistry to physics.
摩托车	林先生明天早晨将擦洗他的mo2tuo1che1。	Mr. Lin will wash his motorcycle tomorrow morning.
措施	他们提高生产力的cuo4shi1卓有成效。	Their efforts to improve the production have been very effective.
人民币	我从未用过ren2min2bi4付款。	I've never made payment in Renminbi before.
培训	该旅行团将由一名受过专门pei2xun4过的护士陪同。	The tour will be accompanied by a trained nurse.
疲劳	神经衰弱一种神经系统紊乱，表现为长期pi2lao2乏力、失去记忆，带中度疼痛。以前被认为是由于神经系统衰竭引起的	A neurotic disorder characterized by chronic fatigue and weakness, loss of memory, and generalized aches and pains. It was formerly thought to result from exhaustion of the nervous system.
成果	他的研究cheng2guo3和你的研究cheng2guo3有关联。	His research results correlate with yours.
军事	封锁线驻扎于一个地区周围包围或保卫它的一列人、jun1shi4岗位或船只	A line of people, military posts, or ships stationed around an area to enclose or guard it.
恶劣	我们前进时受到了e4lie4天气的阻碍.	Our progress was hampered by the bad weather.
固定	你们公司有gu4ding4的办公时间吗?	Are there set hours of work in your company?
开发	她谈的是计算机软件的kai1fa1问题。	Her talk ran on developments in computer software.
领域	他在自己的ling3yu4里已经出名了。	He has become famous in his own field.
综合	zong1he2命题由和或其符号所连接的子句组成的复合命题，只有当所有子句为真时，该句才为真	A compound proposition that has components joined by the word and or its symbol and is true only if both or all the components are true.
登记	士兵离开营房得deng1ji4签字.	Soldiers sign out when they leave the barracks.
赞美	他的批评者多，而zan4mei3者少。	His critics are many and his admirers (are) few.
规模	我们现在正经历gui1mo2空前的失业现象。	We are seeing unemployment on an unprecedented scale.
双方	若要争执获得解决, shuang1fang1就要互相让步.	If the dispute is to be resolved there must be some give and take.
贡献	他极力贬低她在那项研究中的gong4xian4, 从而独获全部奖励.	He minimized the value of her contribution to his research so that he got all the praise.
破产	去年这个镇已有十起po4chan3事件。	Ten bankruptcies were recorded in this town last year.
反复	她fan3fu4地给孩子们说，他们不可以独自横过马路。	She drummed it into the children that they must not cross the road alone.
制度	他们要求对税收zhi4du4进行根本改革。	They called for a radical reform of our tax system.
沙漠	他们在sha1mo4中迷路而渴死了.	They lost their way in the desert and died of thirst.
违反	那位记者被控有wei2fan3职业道德的行为。	The reporter was accused of unprofessional conduct.
宽	这条街比那条街kuan1三倍。	This street is three times wider than that one.
救护车	人群向后退开，让jiu4hu4che1可以开过去。	The crowd bore back so that the ambulance could pass.
亲切	她的qin1qie4给我留下了很深的印象。	Her gentleness has given me a deep impression.
集合	内集团一群因共同的信仰、态度和兴趣而ji2he2在一起并明显排斥外人的小集团；小集团	A group of people united by common beliefs, attitudes, or interests and characteristically excluding outsiders; a clique.
成人	这些电影只适宜cheng2ren2观看。	These films are suitable for adults only.
鼓掌	孩子们表演完后，大人们gu3zhang3。	The grown-ups applauded after the children had finished their performance.
义务	我觉得我有yi4wu4不这样。	I feel it is my duty not to.
改革	我们的gai3ge2取得了势不可挡的进展。	Our reform made an inexorable march of progress.
可靠	他是不太ke3kao4, 但我仍很喜欢他.	He's not very reliable, but I like him just the same.
阳台	他在那个伸出到街上的yang2tai2上种了些花。	He planted some flowers on the balcony that projects over the street.
当心	过马路时要dang1xin1。	Be careful when you cross the road.
农村	那个nong2cun1男孩儿过不惯城市生活.	The village boy was strange to city life.
传播	电视已成为chuan2bo1政治思想的重要媒介。	Television has become an important vehicle for spreading political ideas.
成立	这家公司cheng2li4於1860年.	This business was established in 1860.
艰巨	这是件jian1ju4的工作, 但她是能胜任的.	It's a difficult job but she's the person to carry it through.
多余	所有这些完全都是duo1yu2的。	All this is totally unnecessary.
相对	xiang1dui4来说, 这事并不重要.	Relatively speaking, this matter is unimportant.
出版	她最近chu1ban3的书论述14行诗。	Her latest book discourses upon sonnets.
农民	很多nong2min2离开农村转事工业劳动.	Many farmers are leaving the land to work in industry.
大型	da4xing2电子工业公司研制出了电视，但这有赖於贝尔德的实验为此指出了方向。	Large electronics company develop television, but baird pointed the way with his experiment.
询问	首相对xun2wen4选举日期一事称尚未作出决定.	Asked about the date of the election, the Prime Minister commented that no decision had yet been made.
体现	我讨厌的一切都在他身上ti3xian4出来了。	He epitomizes everything I dislike.
射击	大炮的she4ji1毁了这座城市。	The cannon shot the town to pieces.
谈判	资方和工会的tan2pan4失败了。	Talks between management and unions have collapsed.
日常	有很多ri4chang2生活用品是塑料制的.	Many items in daily use are made out of plastic.
趋势	新法例有限制新闻自由的qu1shi4.	Recent laws have tended to restrict the freedom of the press.
落后	风猛烈地刮了一整天后，日luo4hou4变小了。	The wind was strong all day, but it moderated after sunset.
宁可	我ning4ke3挨饿也不吃那种东西!	I'd rather go hungry than eat that!
热烈	他的讲话受到re4lie4的欢迎.	His talk met with/was given a warm (ie enthusiastic) reception.
握手	wo4shou3时软弱无力。	Has limp, weak handshake.
秘书	她是我们公司的一位mi4shu1。	She is a secretary in our company.
大方	设法用钱da4fang5一点。	Try to be more generous with your money.
转变	我发觉她态度上有所zhuan3bian4。	I detected a change in her attitude.
歪	他wai1戴著帽子.	He's got his hat on askew.
必然	你工作得愈久，你愈会疲倦，那bi4ran2是真的。	It follows that the longer you work, the more tired you will be.
录音	lu4yin1磁带的复制质量有了很大改进。	The reproductive quality of audio tapes has improved enormously.
忽视	hu1shi4银行经理来函, 後果堪虑.	One ignores letters from the bank manager at one's peril.
地毯	新窗帘配那di4tan3非常谐调.	The new curtains are a perfect match for the carpet.
神话	我对希腊罗马shen2hua4非常感兴趣。	I am very interested in Greek and Roman mythology.
整体	zheng3ti3大於其任何一部分是公理.	It is axiomatic (to say) that a whole is greater than any of its parts.
核心	我们的要求的he2xin1是言论自由。	The core of our appeal is freedom of speech.
预报	据yu4bao4说今天的空气湿度是百分之六十。	It's said by forecast that the humidity in the air today is 60%.
展开	我们等有空再对这题目zhan3kai1辩论。	We will debate the subject at length later when we are at leisure.
手工	在珠宝饰物的制造中，shou3gong1与艺术的结合决定了珠宝的价值。	The conjunction of workmanship and artistry in making jewelry decides the value of the jewelry.
体贴	ti3tie1的体谅他人感情的	Considerate of the feelings of others.
壶	给我再来一hu2咖啡.	Bring me another pot of coffee.
实习	她指导shi2xi2护士练习注射.	She instructed the trainee nurses in giving injections.
姑姑	我gu1gu5有时候还真有点讨人厌.	My aunt can be a bit of a terror.
复制	知识分子决不应结婚；他们既不会享受婚姻生活，更不应fu4zhi4自己。	Intellectual shall never marry; they will not enjoy it, and besides, they shall not reproduce themselves.
闪电	shan3dian4通常伴有雷声。	Lightning usually accompanies thunder.
睁	他吃惊地zheng1大了眼睛。	He opened his eyes wide in surprise.
运用	发挥yun4yong4的行为或事例，尤指全力以赴的努力	The act or an instance of exerting, especially a strenuous effort.
批准	首先, 我们没得到pi1zhun3。	To start with, we haven't got the approval.
逻辑	要写出好文章, 必须先从luo2ji5上理顺思绪.	To write a good essay you must first organize your ideas logically.
结构	修理教堂jie2gou4的花费非常大。	The cost of repairing the fabric of the church was very high.
点心	我中午通常只吃dian3xin5.	Usually I only have a snack at lunchtime.
未必	餐厅的名字wei4bi4能告诉你很多它所供应的食物。	The name of a restaurant won't necessarily tell you much about the food it serves.
移民	岛上逐渐迁入很多欧洲yi2min2.	The islands were gradually populated by settlers from Europe.
球迷	qiu2mi2群情激昂, 一窝蜂涌进球场.	The fans rushed onto the pitch in an excited mob.
输入	在字符识别中，字符阅读器所使用的一种系统，在这里shu1ru4的文件以预定的和不变的速率被发送给文件传送装置。	A system used by character readers in character recognition where each input document is issued to the document transport at a predetermined and fixed rate.
本质	ben3zhi4的是物体必不可少的组成部分；固有的	Constituting or being part of the essence of something; inherent.
厘米	宽为80li2mi3.	The width measurement is 80 cm.
宝贵	你应很好利用bao3gui4的每一分钟去学习。	You should make good use of every precious minute to study.
专心	zhuan1xin1工作, 不要说话.	Attend to your work and stop talking.
发言	所有参加辩论的人都有机会fa1yan2.	All the participants in the debate had an opportunity to speak.
贷款	银行拒绝再dai4kuan3给这家公司。	The bank refused further credits to the company.
生长	这种小麦可以在寒冷的春天sheng1zhang3。	This strain of wheat can grow during a cold spring.
劳动	当父母们在田里lao2dong4的时候，孩子们在托儿所里受到良好的照顾。	Small children are well cared for in nurseries while their parents work in the fields.
坚决	这位法官是监狱改革的jian1jue2拥护者。	This judge is a strong advocate of prison reform.
观念	作为清教徒，他的道德和宗教guan1nian4都很严格。	As a Puritan, he is strict in moral and religion.
形状	曲状物具有此种曲线xing2zhuang4的物体	Something having the general shape of this curve.
车厢	用这个专门的挂钩把客车che1xiang1挂上机车。	Lock the carriages on the engine with this special hook.
象征	这枚戒指是他们爱情的xiang4zheng1，对她是重要的。	The ring was important to her as an emblem of their love.
自愿	谁zi4yuan4来帮忙收拾一下这些盘子？	Can I have a volunteer to wash the dishes?
胆小鬼	他自己承认是个dan3xiao3gui3.	He is a coward by his own admission.
待遇	对这种dai4yu4[受到这样的dai4yu4]我表示抗议.	I object to such treatment /to being treated like this.
情景	这战场的qing2jing3触目惊心.	The battlefield was a fearsome sight.
总裁	他被提名为行政zong3cai2的事被董事会批准了。	His nomination as chief executive was approved by the board.
事先	为了确定他在家，我shi4xian1打电话给他。	To make sure that he was at home, I called him up in advance.
均匀	在计算机图形学中，提供显示空间jun1yun2覆盖面的预定扫描线图案。	In computer graphics, a predetermined pattern of lines, that provides uniform coverage of a display space.
特征	教授将要做关于地理te4zheng1的讲座。	The professor will give a lecture of geographical features.
疑问	人类思考的最大的忧郁，也许是：大体上，人的慈善行为究竟有益抑或更为有害，是一则yi2wen4。	The most melancholy of human reflections, perhaps, is that, on the whole, it is a question whether the benevolence of man does most harm or good.
大象	我屡次梦见自己变成了da4xiang4.	I have a recurrent dream that I've turned into an elephant.
有利	他对他们的候选人发表了一些you3li4的评论。	He made several favorable comments about their candidate.
木头	我们的mu4tou2沙发似乎不太舒服。	Our wooden sofa seems not very comfortable.
盆	他用塑料铲把pen2里的混合料刮了出来.	He scraped the mixture out of the bowl with a plastic spatula.
进口	您想买jin4kou3的还是国产的？	Do you want an import brand or a home-make one?
透明	提灯一种可经常携带的装置，带有tou4ming2或半tou4ming2的侧面以装入和保护灯	An often portable case with transparent or translucent sides for holding and protecting a light.
突出	他们的足球队在昨天的比赛中表现tu1chu1。	Their football team performed very well in the match yesterday.
洒	把瓶盖儿盖好, 要不汁液就sa3出来了.	Put the cap back on the bottle, otherwise the juice will spill.
修改	既然你坚持，我就只好xiu1gai3信用证。	Since you insist, I must amend the letter of credit.
赞成	虽说委员会中的多数zan4cheng2这项议案，但还有一些人持不同看法。	Although most of members of the committee spoke for the bill, a few still held different views.
极其	编词典是一种ji2qi2吃力的苦差。	Compiling a dictionary is an awful sweat.
对比	把这两个计划仔细地加以dui4bi3就可以看出一些关键性的差异.	Careful contrast of the two plans shows up some key differences.
差距	学校训练和工作训练之间的cha1ju4确实是英国制度方面的一个最大失败。“一般地说，学校不想了解任何与工作中的人们有关的情况，”海斯先生说。	The gap between school training and work training is, indeed, one of the greatest failures of the British system.""In general schools don't want to know anything to do with the world at work, "" says Mr Hayes.
宴会	那次yan4hui4很轻松, 随随便便.	The dinner was a relaxed, unceremonious occasion.
元旦	约翰在Yuan2dan4做了什么事？	What did John do on New Year's Day?
平等	工党政治思想的要点是人人ping2deng3。	The cardinal idea of the Labor Party's political thought is that all people should be equal.
反映	某一时期的文学可fan3ying4出该时期的价值观念和审美观念.	The literature of a period reflects its values and tastes.
老百姓	在旧社会lao3bai3xing4的生活是贫苦的	The husbandmen's life in old society is poor.
眉毛	呈拱形的扬起的mei2mao5	The arch of a raised eyebrow.
利润	我们如果想增加li4run4，就必须削减开支。	We have to trim our cost if we want to increase our profit.
地理	我对di4li3只是一知半解.	I have only a sketchy knowledge of geography.
面积	比较一下这些三角形的mian4ji1.	Compare the areas of these triangles.
戏剧	她正在xi4ju4研讨班学习。	She is studying in a theatre workshop.
窗帘	这chuang1lian2和你那块地毯不相配.	These curtains won't match your carpet.
馒头	不要把man2tou5放在桌子上，它会干硬的。	Don't leave that steamed bread on the table, it will dry out.
干燥	gan1zao4的天气之后，人人都希望下雨。	After these dry days, everyone hopes for rain.
操心	别为我cao1xin1，我一切都好。	Don't bother yourself about me; I am doing quite well.
键盘	那架风琴有两排jian4pan2。	The organ has two banks of keys.
其余	贵方所订购货物之qi2yu2部分, 一俟我方进货即可供应.	The balance of your order will be supplied when we receive fresh stock.
语气	条件（从句）表示条件的yu3qi4、时态、从句或词	A mood, tense, clause, or word expressing a condition.
痛快	他大清早总是不tong4kuai5.	He's always out of sorts early in the morning.
工业	有人向部长提出了gong1ye4计划问题。	The minister was queried about his plans for the industry.
香肠	你较喜欢油煎xiang1chang2吗?	Do you like fried sausages more?
包含	这辆新车bao1han2了许多改进的项目。	The new car embodies many improvements.
诊断	他经zhen3duan4为精神失常而送往精神病院.	He was certified and sent to a mental hospital.
摔倒	他肯定是喝多了，当他要站起来时，却shuai1dao3在地上。	He must have drunk too much; when he tried to stand up, he keeled over.
抽屉	你用手电筒照一下这chou1ti4里面。	Shine your torch into the drawer.
密切	但是我们彼此合作的领域还在不断增加。我们已经商定在贸易、技术、投资以及科学与管理专门知识的交流等方面更mi4qie4地合作。	But the areas of our mutual cooperation continue to expand. We have already agreed to cooperate more closely in trade, technology, investment, and exchanges of scientific and managerial expertise.
勤奋	qin2fen4常会引向成功。	Diligence is often the door to success.
传染	潜伏的chuan2ran3	A latent infection.
文学	他获准攻读wen2xue2硕士学位。	He was allowed to proceed to an MA.
题目	我们讨论的ti2mu4是｀八十年代的欧洲＇.	The theme of our discussionwas Europe in the 1980's'.
青少年	团体，帮一群组合在一起的qing1-shao4nian2，尤指一群少年犯	A group of adolescents who band together, especially a group of delinquents.
能源	由于石油短缺, 任何一种新neng2yuan2都会受欢迎。	Any new source of energy will be welcome, as there is a shortage of petroleum.
活跃	就她的年龄来说, 她是够huo2yue4的.	She's very active, considering her age.
写作	xie3zuo4是他的生命。	Writing is his life.
设施	公园对大城市的居民是大有裨益的she4shi1。	Parks are a great boon to people in big cities.
披	她的长发pi1在後背直垂到腰间.	Her hair hung down her back to her waist.
围绕	玛丽一点也没有其他兴趣，她的全部生活都wei2rao4着丈夫和孩子转。	Mary has no outside interest at all.Her whole life revolves around her husband and the children.
兑换	我想把这些美元dui4huan4成英镑。	I should like to change these dollars to pounds.
格外	这幅画衬在素墙上就更加（ge2wai4）好看了.	The picture may be seen to (its best) advantage against a plain wall.
英俊	华丽的服装使他那极其ying1jun4的外貌更为增色.	Fine clothes added to his strikingly handsome appearance.
具备	他不ju4bei4这项工作所需的资格。	He hasn't got the requisite qualifications for this job.
争论	我跟太太zheng1lun4有关家庭费用的问题。	I disputed with my wife on household expenses.
失业	这人shi1ye4后就生活在贫困之中。	The man lived in poverty after his unemployment.
怪不得	guai4bu5de5你们在舐着嘴唇，原来晚餐有肉。	No wonder you are licking your chops, there's pork for dinner.
家务	我们有个女仆干jia1wu4活儿.	We have a maid to do the housework.
营业	这家饭店除星期一外, 每天都ying2ye4.	The restaurant is open every day except Monday.
长辈	他用zhang3bei4的口气劝告年轻的同事.	He adopts an avuncular tone of voice when giving advice to junior colleagues.
一再	她讲话中yi1zai4强调的就是需要削减开支.	The leitmotiv of her speech was the need to reduce expenditure.
耳环	你的[这种]er3huan2是夹上去的吗?	Do you clip those ear-rings on/Do those ear-rings clip on?
比例	这房间就其高度的bi3li4而言是很宽的.	The room is wide in proportion to its height.
哲学	伦理学是zhe2xue2的分科.	Ethics is a branch of philosophy.
扩大	我们已经kuo4da4了生产以满足需求.	We've scaled up production to meet demand.
参考	讲话时他经常can1kao3笔记。	He frequently referred to the notes during the course of the talk.
何况	但我们懂得事情并非如此，更he2kuang4我们资金不足。	But we have learned that is not so. And in any case, our funds are low.
寿命	一般而言，女性shou4ming4较男性长。	Generally speaking, women live longer than men.
秩序	因无人维持zhi4xu4, 教室里一片混乱.	With no one to keep order the situation in the classroom was chaotic.
时髦	她穿着一件shi2mao2的礼服。	She wears a modern dress.
作文	就英语zuo4wen2而言，练习是最好的方法。	So far as English composition is concerned, practice is the best way.
制定	政府将zhi4ding4法规限制枪支出售。	The government will introduce legislation to restrict the sale of firearms.
耽误	马上把化肥给我们送来，要不，我们小麦播种就要给dan1wu4了。	Send us the fertilizer at once, or our wheat sowing will be held up.
业余	我所有的ye4yu2时间都用在诗歌阅读上。	I spent all my spare time reading poetry.
常识	她一点儿chang2shi2也没有.	She hasn't an ounce of common sense.
打交道	我讨厌与那些没有人情味的大公司da3 jiao1dao5。	I hate dealing with large impersonal companies.
幸亏	xing4kui1他体质好，杰克才得以平安度过了最近这场大病。	Thanks to his strong constitution, Jack was able to pull through his recent serious illness.
及格	参加考试的人大多数语法ji2ge2.	Most candidates passed in grammar.
原料	煤、 石油和矿产品都是工业yuan2liao4.	Coal, oil and minerals are the raw materials of industry.
纷纷	一下起雨来，观众就fen1fen1找地方躲避。	The spectators scuttled for shelter when it began to rain.
分配	他已把各项任务fen1pei4给队员们.	He apportioned the members of the team their various tasks.
汽油	他们又提高了qi4you2的价格。	They have increased the price of petrol again.
发抖	他害怕得声音fa1dou3。	His voice shook with fear.
运输	当地的铁路yun4shu1在1958年中断了.	The local rail service (was) discontinued in 1958.
长途	所有飞机均须先加油方能作chang2tu2飞行.	All aircraft must fuel before a long flight.
会计	那个kuai4ji4向营业部的职员介绍了自己的工作情况.	The accountant described his work to the sales staff.
此外	ci3wai4，我父亲过去是个水手，我想了解他过去常去的那些地方的情况。	Besides, my father was a sailor, and I want to know about the places he used to go to.
丝毫	这次争论没有引起公众si1hao2的兴趣。	The debate aroused not a speck of public interest.
广大	烈士们的英勇事迹在guang3da4群众中传颂着。	The heroic deeds of the martyrs are on the lips of the broad masses.
证件	那项要求很有意思，可是你有zheng4jian4加以证明吗？	That's a very interesting claim, but can you document it?
否定	这理论fou3ding4了一切传统信念.	This theory is a negation of all traditional beliefs.
招待	我希望他别再zhao1dai4他的朋友了。	I wish he would desist from entertaining his friends.
盼望	他们非常pan4wang4再次见到他。	They looked forward very much to seeing him again.
发达	那个国家的潜力很大，但文明程度还不够fa1da2。	The country has a big potential but civilization there is still in the rough.
赔偿	她受伤後获得保险公司的pei2chang2.	She was compensated by the insurance company for her injuries.
实践	认识从shi2jian4开始。	Knowledge begin with practice.
总共	zong3gong4来了23位客人.	There are 23 guests coming, all told.
工程师	受过高速工路建筑技术培训的gong1cheng2shi1；施工了七年	An engineer trained in highway construction; worked in construction for seven years.
危害	许多wei1hai4健康的情况都与吸烟有关。	There are many serious health hazards associated with smoking.
难免	她有个新生婴儿要照看, 活动nan2mian3受些限制.	Having a new baby to look after has clipped her wings a bit.
多亏	duo1kui1您们的帮助，我们才成功完成了工作。	Owing to you help, we have just successfully completed work.
吨	这头大象重多少dun1？	How many tons does this elephant weigh?
位于	她的祖国wei4yu2热带地区。	Her motherland is in the tropical region.
能干	他是一位多么neng2gan4的经理呀！	What a capable manager he is!
形势	该是你认识xing2shi4的真实情况的时候了。	It's time you awake to the realities of the situation.
报到	在两点到三点之间向经理bao4dao4。	Report yourself to the manager between2 and3.
执照	zhi2zhao4，奖状赋予某种荣誉和特权的证书	A certificate conferring a privilege or honor.
谦虚	她很聪明, 倒也很qian1xu1.	Though very intelligent, she is nevertheless rather modest.
地道	犯人挖di4dao5逃跑了.	The prisoners had escaped by tunnelling.
试卷	他擦去shi4juan4上的铅笔笔迹然后递给了老师。	He erased pencil marks form the test paper and handed to the teacher.
维修	wei2xiu1手册向您提供修理汽车所需的图表和说明。	A maintenance manual gives diagrams and instructions for repairing your car.
重量	他身体的zhong4liang4把树枝压弯了.	The branch began to give under his weight.
吃亏	他不会说法语, 这使他很chi1kui1.	His inability to speak French puts him at a disadvantage.
改进	她需要gai3jin4阐述其论点的方式。	She needs to improve her presentation of the arguments.
优美	叙述清楚比语言you1mei3更重要。	Clearness of statement is more important than beauty of language.
悲观	他对未来感到bei1guan1。	He is pessimistic about the future.
构成	葡萄状的由成串的部分gou4cheng2的，用于腺体	Having a structure of clustered parts. Used of glands.
兼职	她想找一个jian1zhi2工作。	She wants to find a part-time job.
狡猾	别相信他，他像老狐狸一样jiao3hua2。	Don't trust him, he is a sly old fox.
讲究	他穿了一身jiang3jiu5的新衣服逛来逛去, 显得颇为惬意.	He strolled about, looking very debonair in his elegant new suit.
辩论	议会对议案的数份修正案进行了bian4lun4.	Parliament debated several amendments to the bill.
整齐	细心的人总是把东西放得很zheng3qi2。	Careful people usually put everything in good order.
客观	ke4guan1主义在文学或艺术中对ke4guan1物体的强调而并非对情感或思想的强调	An emphasis on objects rather than feelings or thoughts in literature or art.
铃	下课ling2响了.	There's the bell for the end of the lesson.
办理	我叫李华，正在ban4li3你校1991年秋季财会转业研究生入学申请。	My name is Li Hua. I am applying for the graduate studies in Accounting for the fall of1991.
肥皂	fei2zao4与教育并不像大屠杀般突如其来，但结果是更要命的。	Soap and education are not as sudden as a massacre, but they are more deadly in the long run.
匆忙	我很cong1mang2, 所以随便地把衣服穿上了。	I was in such a hurry that I put my clothes on anyhow.
接待	他们很冷淡地jie1dai4了这位首相.	They gave the Prime Minister a cool reception.
艰苦	他最後厌倦了这种jian1ku3的尝试.	Eventually he tired of trying so hard.
贸易	我们必须促进与邻国的mao4yi4.	We must promote commerce with neighbouring countries.
火柴	把这件事当作你的教训, 再也不要玩huo3chai2了!	Let this be a lesson to you never to play with matches!
延长	船期交涉需15天，请更改yan2chang2信用证。	Amend credit extend shipping negotiating date15 days.
忍不住	我一见到冰淇淋就ren3bu5zhu4想吃。	I can never resist an ice cream.
步骤	开始行步在某些游戏（尤指西洋棋）开始下棋的固定走法或bu4zhou4	A specific pattern or series of beginning moves in certain games, especially chess.
名牌	ming2pai2记有名字的牌或匾，如挂在办公室门上	A plate or plaque, as on an office door, inscribed with a name.
总理	那个zong3li3只不过是该国总统的马前卒.	The prime minister was a mere tool in the hands of the country's president.
爱护	ai4hu4主义，对大部分人来说，只不过是害怕不公正所苦罢了。	The love of justice be, in most men, nothing more than the fear of suffering injustice.
惭愧	至於你, 你应该感到can2kui4.	As for you, you ought to be ashamed of yourself.
傍晚	我们希望bang4wan3时能回来.	We hope to be back by nightfall.
感想	gan3xiang3更多地建立在感情而不是理智上的观点；gan3xiang3	Opinion based more on emotion than on reason; sentiment.
照常	尽管早上起来头疼，我还是zhao4chang2上班。	Although I got up with a headache, I went to work as usual.
台阶	那姑娘站在门前的tai2jie1上冷得直打哆嗦。	The girl stood shivering with cold on the doorstep.
人事	我正攻读ren2shi4学。	I am studying personnel management.
预订	我已经在这个旅馆里yu4ding4了一个房间。	I have engaged a room at this hotel.
册	这本书出版社已印了10000ce4.	The publisher has printed10000 copies of the book.
调皮	他女儿是一个tiao2pi2的假小子。	His daughter is a saucy tomboy.
担任	我不打算dan1ren4这项工作。	I don't plan to take the job.
管子	guan3zi5以熔合管端的方法封闭起来了。	The tube was sealed off by fusing the material together.
递	请把字典di4给我。	Please pass the dictionary to me.
粗糙	假若便秘就应该多吃cu1cao1食物.	If you're constipated you should eat more roughage.
看望	自从我们kan4wang4你母亲以来到现在有多长时间了？	How long is it since we visited your mother?
打听	我很想听听可能会发生什麽变动, 但是（关於这一点）不管怎麽da3ting5, 他们就是不说.	I wanted to hear about possible changes, but I couldn't draw them (on that).
学历	她已获得良好xue2li4.	She already has good academic qualifications under her belt.
灵活	我想您也许知道中国在对外贸易中采取了ling2huo2政策。	I think you probably know that China have adopt a flexible policy in her foreign trade.
柜台	在gui4tai2可以买到供自动售烟机使用的代币.	Tokens for the cigarette machine are available at the bar.
日程	董事长打算从本次议事ri4cheng2中去掉两个议事项目	The chairman wanted two items removed from or take off the agenda.
零件	每个ling2jian4在装配前都经过仔细检查.	Each component is carefully checked before assembly.
责备	我刚好及时到会，才算没受ze2bei4。	I saved my bacon by arriving just in time for the meeting.
推广	tui1guang3这种新方法不是件容易的工作。	Popularizing this new method is not an easy job.
不要紧	｀你没赶上公共汽车吗? bu4 yao4jin3, 五分钟後就来一辆.＇	Did you miss the bus? Never mind, there'll be another one in five minutes.
展览	当地画家将要在这个风景点举办zhan3lan3。	The local artists will hold an exhibition on the landmark.
录取	不到两天，我就收到了经理写来的lu4qu3信。	Within two days I received a letter of acceptance from the manager.
淘气	活泼的孩子有时是会tao2qi4的。	One expects active children to be mischievous at times.
测验	我们明天早晨进行一个小ce4yan4。	We will have a quiz tomorrow morning.
潮湿	气候chao2shi1，把书都霉坏了。	The dampness of the climate decayed the books.
迫切	因此有效对付这些常见病就是我们最po4qie4需要解决的问题。	So the effective handling of the common diseases constitutes our most urgent problem.
冷淡	你知道她为什么对他如此leng3dan4吗？	Do you know why she is so strange to him?
转告	向你表达良好的祝愿。他让我一定zhuan3gao4你，他得知你的病情；好转后十分高兴。	Frank sends his best wishes, and he says to be sure and tell you how delighted he is to hear about your fine progress.
乐器	风笛是一种听起来很悦耳的yue4qi4。	The bagpipe is a sweet musical instrument.
浏览	我没有真正地看过这本书，只是liu2lan3了一下看是关于什么的罢了。	I haven't read the book properly, I just flipped through it to see what it was like.
桔子	种子，籽如苹果或ju2zi5水果的小种子	The small seed of a fruit, as that of an apple or orange.
吸取	如果我们准备采用新工序的话，我们将只得xi1qu3那些已有这方面工作经验的人们的成果。	If we are to start the new process, we shall have to pick the brains of those who have had some experience of doing the job.
灰尘	在阳光照射下能看见架子上有hui1chen2。	The dust on the shelf show up in the sunlight.
巧妙	他表演了一些qiao3miao4的魔术。	He played some clever magic tricks.
启发	我们的心灵是由天赋的智慧所qi3fa1的。	Our souls are lighted with wisdom from on high.
热心	从她的回答来看, 她并不十分re4xin1.	I gathered from the way she replied that she wasn't very enthusiastic.
手续	你应该签个合同使你任职合乎规定shou3xu4.	You should sign a contract to make your job situation regular.
出示	请chu1shi4护照。	Show me your passport, please.
广泛	通才在几种领域内有guang3fan4的普遍的知识和技能的一种人	One who has broad general knowledge and skills in several areas.
光滑	这只猫毛很guang1hua2，看来喂得很好。	The cat looked very sleek and well fed.
流传	这首流行歌曲到处liu2chuan2。	The popular song rings far and near.
学问	先生的xue2wen5博大精深。	The teacher had both extensive knowledge and profound scholarship.
农业	解放后这个国家的nong2ye4得到了巨大的发展。	Agriculture in this country has developed greatly after liberation.
辅导	如果班上的人数多，老师就不能给予个别fu3dao3了。	A teacher can't give individual attention to each pupil if his class is large.
罚款	法官判他fa2kuan310 美元。	The judge imposed a fine of ten dollars on him.
陆续	演讲单调乏味，不久，听众就开始lu4xu4离席了。	The lecture was so dull that soon the audience begin to drop away.
要不	我们得跑著去, yao4bu4就太晚了.	We must run, otherwise we'll be too late.
称赞	他总是cheng1zan4他的女儿。	He always speaks well of his daughter.
生动	他对旅行作了十分sheng1dong4的叙述。	He told a very descriptive account of his journey.
行人	这份调查是真正内xing2ren2做的.	This survey is the work of a real professional.
鲜艳	樫鸟是一种爱叫的欧洲鸟，有xian1yan4的羽毛。	Blue jay is a type of noisy European bird with brightly colored feathers.
斜	我们xie2渡过河。	We slanted across the river.
发票	那个文件柜中的fa1piao4是按日期顺序整理好的。	That filing cabinet contain invoice ordered by date.
外交	他们在陆军海军中应当有亲属，在wai4jiao1部门中至少应当有一门亲戚。	He should have relatives in the army and navy and at least one connection in the diplomatic service.
结实	你应该把房屋建得尽可能jie1shi5。	You must make the houses as strong as possible.
个别	他至少也该来道ge4bie2（然而却没来）。	He should at least have come to say good-by.
鼓舞	她赞扬的话gu3wu3人们工作更努力。	Her words of praise were a stimulus for people to work harder.
海关	我们的hai3guan1检查只花了几分钟时间。	It took us only a few minutes to get through the Customs.
操场	有几个年龄较大的男孩子在cao1chang3上对他动武.	He was bashed up in the playground by some older boys.
词汇	他ci2hui4很丰富。	He has an extensive vocabulary.
粮食	干旱少雨使原本就很严重的liang2shi5短缺问题更加严重。	The lack of rain aggravated the already serious shortage of food.
窄	罗缎有zhai3的横棱纹的一种丝或人造丝的紧密织物	A closely woven silk or rayon fabric with narrow horizontal ribs.
目录	兹寄上经过修订的商品mu4lu4和价目表。有些可能对贵方合适。	I send you my revised catalog and price- list, in the hope that you may find something to suit you.
利息	li4xi1一下降给公司带来了一个新的问题。	Falling interest rates present the firm with a new problem.
交际	很多jiao1ji4上的访问，你以为是来拜会你本人的，其实是来拜会你的酒瓶子。	Many social visits that you think pay to yourself is paying to your bottle.
性质	成语的类似成语的或具有成语xing4zhi4的	Resembling or having the nature of an idiom.
学术	主题，范围一个题目、课题或xue2shu4兴趣或专业领域	A topic, a subject, or an area of academic interest or specialization.
池塘	鹿低下头去喝chi2tang2里的水。	The deer lowered its head to drink from the pond.
主张	她极力zhu3zhang1拼写正确是十分重要的.	She has very pronounced views on the importance of correct spelling.
报社	bao4she4记者把部长团团围住，坚持要他发表一个声明。	Newspaper reporters pushed round the Minister, urging him to give them a statement.
劳驾	lao2jia4，您能告诉我在哪能买到邮票吗？	Excuse me, can you tell where to get stamp?
种类	这个地区有两zhong3lei4型的岩石。	There are two types of rocks in this area.
轮流	学生们每天lun2liu2打扫教室。	The students clean the classroom everyday in turn.
议论	情况很可怕，可是还一个劲儿地yi4lun4让人觉得更可怕。	The situation is frightful, but it's just piling on the agony to keep discussing it.
改正	我认为这些数据是最近才得到的，但我乐于接受gai3zheng4。	I believe these figures are the most recent available but I am open to correction.
周到	你时时拜望亲戚很zhou1dao4啊。	It is considerate of you to call on your relatives from time to time.
空闲	你通常是怎样度过你的kong4xian2时间？	How do you usually spend your leisure time?
上当	猎人把狮子的头挂在墙shang4dang4纪念品。	The hunter put the lion's head on the wall as a trophy.
用途	这笔钱有专门yong4tu2: 就是建造新剧院.	The money is to be used for one specific purpose: the building of the new theatre.
果实	杏树属植物其它几种植物，如印度杏树，尤指guo3shi2和种籽类似杏树的	Any of several other plants, such as the Indian almond, especially those with fruits or seeds suggestive of the almond.
主观	对队员的挑选似乎完全是zhu3guan1决定的。	The choice of players for the team seems completely arbitrary.
嫩	长颈鹿从高高的树上吃掉nen4树叶子。	The giraffe eats tender leaf from the tree highly.
逐步	他身体在zhu2bu4好起来。	He is getting better by degrees.
本领	那位百万富翁是从很少的钱开始的．但是在最充分利用机会方面表现出他的ben3ling3。	That millionaire started with very little, but showed a skill in playing his cards right.
风俗	此feng1su2在有些村里至今犹存.	The custom still lingers (on) in some villages.
繁荣	新政府的成立带来了一个fan2rong2的时期.	The new government ushered in a period of prosperity.
讲座	由于无法控制的情况，jiang3zuo4取消了。	Due to circumstances beyond our control the lecture was cancelled.
往返	渡船定期wang3fan3于英吉利海峡。	Ferryboats ply across the English Channel.
昆虫	蚕茧是由kun1chong2制造的一种由丝组成的外包层。	A cocoon is a kind of silk covering made by an insect.
湿润	她的眼睛shi1run4了。	Her eyes moistened slightly.
夹子	胸针用jia1zi5或别针固定的一件首饰；胸针	A piece of jewelry that fastens with a clasp or clip; a brooch.
描写	她的小说miao2xie3的是伦敦现代的生活。	Her novel depicts life in modern London.
书架	他把书放回到shu1jia4上。	He replaced the book in the shelf.
成语	我要不时地再给你们介绍一些cheng2yu3。	I'll give you some more idioms from time to time.
促使	我希望我的告诫会cu4shi3她作出更大的努力。	I hoped my warning would stimulate her to greater efforts.
印刷	一定要先看清小号字体yin4shua1部分再签字.	Make sure you read all the small print before signing.
躲藏	最後总算把孩子从duo3cang2的地方都找了出来.	The children were finally all winkled out of their hiding places.
征求	他写了这封信打算zheng1qiu2一些意见。	He wrote the letter with the intention of asking for some advice.
分布	一块长方形地一组小块的，通常是土地中长方形的用地，用于深入研究某地区动植物的fen1bu4	Any of a group of small, usually rectangular plots of land arranged for close study of the distribution of plants or animals in an area.
单元	在计算机程序设计中，一种高级语言的语句或指令，其功能是将一个值放到程序指定的内存地址dan1yuan2内。	In computer programming, a high level language instruction that places a value in a program specified memory address, location.
胶水	使用所附涂敷器涂用jiao1shui3.	Use the applicator provided to spread the glue.
陆地	他细看天水相连的地方, 寻找lu4di4.	He scanned the horizon, looking for land.
熟练	我会shu2lian4地打算盘。	I can use abacus skillfully.
硬件	指一个其价格已包含在计算机或产品的价格中的软件或ying4jian4产品。	Pertaining to a software or hardware product that is included in the price of a computer system or product.
不见得	直接法虽bu4 jian4de5是最简单的，但却是最普通的机器翻译方法。	The direct approach is the most common, though not always the simplest, method of computer translation.
缩短	他们与雇主达成的协议是他们在工资方面降低要求, 但每周工时要suo1duan3.	The bargain they reached with their employers was to reduce their wage claim in return for a shorter working week.
刻苦	讲一口流利的英语需要多年的ke4ku3操练。	It took years of hard work to speak good English.
叙述	那是一个以几种语言xu4shu4的古老的故事。	It's an ancient tale which appears in various guises in several languages.
岛屿	圣诞岛爪哇岛南部印度洋东部的一座dao3yu3，由澳大利亚管辖。在1888年由英国吞并，1958年主权归澳大利亚	An Australian-administered island in the eastern Indian Ocean south of Java. It was annexed by Great Britain in1888 and came under Australian sovereignty in1958.
平方	7的ping2fang1是49.	The square of 7 is 49.
轻视	没有比时间更贵重的东西，但也没有比它更受qing1shi4的东西。	Nothing is more valuable than time, but nothing is less valued.
胡同	当他经过一个黑hu2tong4尽头时，有一个人冲出来袭击他。	As he was passing the end of a dark alley, a man darted out and set on him.
发愁	她只要醒著就一直为工作fa1chou2。	She spends all her waking hours worrying about her job.
小麦	他们正在把xiao3mai4磨成面粉。	They are grinding wheat into flour.
用功	他是yong4gong1的学生, 是优秀的榜样.	He's a shining (ie outstanding, excellent) example of a hard-working pupil.
叉子	园艺cha1zi5的一个尖齿把他的脚扎了.	One of the prongs of the garden fork went through his foot.
竹子	很多东西是由zhu2zi5做出的。	Many things are made out of bamboo.
与其	【谚】yu3qi2锈坏，不如用坏。	Better to wear out than rust out.
讨价还价	她要买店里最好的水果而（跟店主）tao3jia4-huan2jia4.	She dickered (with the shopkeeper) for the best fruit.
概括	他的计划的要点在这个报告中酌此gai4kuo4。	The salient point of his plan is summed up in this report.
梳子	那套shu1zi5非常漂亮，非常特别，但是太贵了。	That set of comb is very beautiful and special, but it costs much.
煤炭	一块mei2tan4从火中掉出来，烧坏了地席。	A coal fell from the fire and burned the mat.
教材	其中之一就是允许地方教委在国家教学大纲的指导下选择合适自身的jiao4cai2。	One of the reforms allows the local education department to choose their own textbooks based upon the national teaching guideline.
抽象	chou1xiang4派艺术要慢慢才会欣赏.	Abstract art is an acquired taste.
游览	我you2lan3伦敦时喜欢坐公共汽车.	When visiting London I like to travel by bus.
悠久	杭州是一座有you1jiu3历史的城市。	Hangzhou is a city with a long history.
灰心	尽管困难在增加，但我们毫不hui1xin1。	Difficulties were increasing. Even then we did not lose heart.
开幕式	我们有必要参加kai1mu4shi4.	We were obligated to attend the opening ceremony.
次要	ci4yao4的第二位的事；较ci4yao4的问题	A secondary matter; a side issue.
振动	中央C音相当於每秒钟zhen4dong4256次.	Middle C is equivalent to 256 vibrations per second.
着凉	不能让你zhao2liang2。快去把湿衣服换掉。	I can't have you catching cold. Run and change your wet things.
拐弯	弯弯曲曲的；迂回的充满弯曲和guai3wan1的；曲折的	Full of twists and turns; tortuous.
提倡	这恰恰减低了他正在ti2chang4的政策本身的价值。	It beggars the very policy he was advocating.
朗读	看著课文, 听我给你lang3du2.	Follow the text while I read it out to you.
急忙	他ji2mang2伸出手臂把她扶住，她才没有跌倒。	He flung his arm out just in time to stop her falling.
再三	我zai4san1央求，他才答应帮忙。	He made a promise of help, as I pleaded with him again and again.
舍不得	我she3bu5de5把这麽多钱花在穿衣服上.	I hesitate to spend so much money on clothes.
挂号	她一定已经收到包裹了, 我是用gua4hao4寄的.	She must have received the parcel: I sent it by registered post.
扇子	“他就象一把大shan4zi5”，他说。	He said.""He's exactly like a huge fan.""
内科	病人安静地躺在nei4ke1病房的床上。	The patient lay quietly on his bed in the medical ward.
好客	不hao4ke4的没有表现出hao4ke4的；不友好的	Displaying no hospitality; unfriendly.
不耐烦	他对任何打扰都感到bu4 nai4fan2。	He was impatient of any interruption.
中旬	我想要到十月zhong1xun2。	By the middle of October, I think.
可见	贝尔的父亲甚至为聋人发明了一套所谓的“ke3jian4的语言”。	Bell's father had even gone so far as to develop a system of so-called""visible speech"" for the deaf.
经商	我叔叔给了我一些钱让我开始jing1shang1。	My uncle gave me some money to start me out in trade.
国庆节	Guo2qing4jie2就要到来了。	National Day was approaching.
声调	她用毫无表情的sheng1diao4回答问题，甚至连眼睛都不抬起。	She answered in a flat little voice and didn't even raised her eyes.
看不起	他kan4bu5qi3他们的意见，认为那些意见很幼稚。	He spat at their ideas, treating them as childish.
干活儿	一到gan4huo2r5的时候, 他就不见了.	He's always missing when there's work to be done.
提纲	他写下演讲的ti2gang1。	He wrote down the outline of his lecture.
尺子	因为chi3zi5被书盖住了，所以我没找到它。	I could not find my ruler because it was covered up by the books.
而	植物因缺水er2枯死了。	The plant died for lack of water.
获得	尽管遭受干旱，还是huo4de2了好收成。	A good harvest was obtained in spite of the drought.
死	倒霉si3了!	What deuced bad luck!
超过	提到烹饪，就chao1guo4我的所能了	I am out of my depth when it comes to cooking.
之	常汲zhi1井涌甘泉。	Draw wells have sweet water.
当	他把刀子dang1杠杆用.	He employed his knife as a lever.
与	那yu3我无关。	I have nothing to do with it.
生活	他们的sheng1huo2就是一首诗。	Their lives are a poem.
干	你gan4得很好。	You did a good job.
感觉	我有种gan3jue2我们正被人跟踪。	I have a feeling that we are being followed.
刚	别把档案弄乱了, 我gang1整理好.	Don't mess the files around, I've just put them in order.
速度	马以极快的su4du4跑完它的路程。	The horse devoured the course before him.
行	明天上午xing2吗?	Is tomorrow morning any good?
所有	suo3you3货物一律八五折.	All goods have been marked down by 15%.
却	那小猫爬到树上que4不敢下来。	The little cat climbed to the top of the tree and became afraid to get down.
不过	它想他至多bu4guo415岁。	I think he was fifteen at(the) most.
地址	要是我知道他的di4zhi3就好了。	I wish I knew his address.
开心	不管她生不生病，她总是开kai1xin1心的。	Whether (she is) sick or fine, she is always cheerful.
幸福	他祝这对年轻人生活xing4fu2、 万事如意.	He wished the young couple a life of happiness and prosperity.
一切	对这yi1qie4他全不在意。	He didn't care about all this.
也许	ye3xu3就是路过顺便来看看。	Maybe he just came by to drop in.
心情	请他出去吃午饭, 那样他xin1qing2就会好些.	Offer to take him out for lunch, then (ie as a result of this) he'll feel in a better mood.
呀	这个新款式是多么新颖ya1！	How fashionable this new style is!
无	他似乎再wu2斗志.	All the fight seemed to go out of him.
发生	这小镇上什么事也没fa1sheng1过。	Nothing ever happens in this town.
敢	你怎麽gan3叫我胖子!	How dare you call me fat!
继续	目前的情况不得再ji4xu4下去了.	The present state of affairs cannot be allowed to go on.
以	他yi3写作为生。	He lives by his pen.
活动	帆船运动是他最喜爱的huo2dong4.	Sailing is the love of his life.
以为	别yi3wei2我能相信那件事.	You can scarcely expect me to believe that.
永远	让我们yong3yuan3怀念为世界和平献身的勇士们。	Let us remember the brave who died for the peace of the world.
肯定	我ken3ding4你有能力。	I've no doubt of your ability.
场	这chang3戏总算结束了。	The play came to an end after all.
可是	尽管他帮助过我，ke3shi4我还是恨他。	I hate him albeit he helped me.
抱歉	我真是非常bao4qian4了。	I can't tell you how sorry I am.
不管	bu4guan3有什么困难，他都要继续推行他的计划。	He'll push on with his project whatever the difficulties may be.
棒	嘿，这个消息太bang4了！	Hey, the news's terrific/great!
爱情	他送给妻子一枚戒指，作为ai4qing2的信物。	He gave his wife a ring as a token of his love.
任何	你不应相信ren4he2陌生人。	You shouldn't trust anyone strange.
成为	离开学校后，他cheng2wei2一名建筑工人。	He became a construction worker after he left school.
支持	无论如何，我都zhi1chi2你。	I'll stand by you whatever happens.
只要	zhi3yao4天一放晴,我们就去。	If only it clears up, we'll go.
掉	我的牙刷diao4毛.	My toothbrush is losing its bristles.
到底	你dao4di3是什么意思?	What on earth do you mean?
成功	没有人能够cheng2gong1而不努力。	No one can succeed without working hard.
感谢	我谨向各位表示衷心的gan3xie4.	My heartfelt thanks to you all.
份	他把工资的一部fen4存起来。	He sets aside part of his salary.
原来	他yuan2lai2很著急, 我总算把他的情绪稳定下来了.	He had been quite anxious, but I managed to settle his mind.
结果	这棵苹果树很少jie2guo3。	The apple tree is seldom fruitful.
好像	hao3xiang4她已出去好几天了。	It looks as if she's gone away for a few days.
连	命运把我们lian2在一起了.	Destiny drew us together.
挺	这听上去ting3不错的。	It sounds quite all right.
完全	我生病时wan2quan2没有食欲.	When I was ill I completely lost my appetite.
弄	他被很多债务nong4得焦灼不安。	He was embarrassed by many debts.
梦	我女儿喜欢给我讲她那些奇怪的meng4。	My daughter likes to describe her fantastic dreams to me.
无聊	我的周末过得很wu2liao2--只是在屋子里 转转或者看看电视.	My weekend was boring I just floated about (the house) or watched TV.
猜	你cai1我今天碰见谁了.	Guess who I ran into today.
任务	虽然ren4wu5艰巨，他们还是设法及时完成。	Difficult though the task was, they managed to accomplish it in time.
消息	听到这xiao1xi5我很高兴。	I'm glad to hear that
陪	pei2我的是一位高先生，他是医院院长。	Accompanying me was a Mr.Kao, director of the hospital.
来自	学生中许多人lai2zi4其他国家。	Many of the students came from other countries.
醒	我通常xing3得很早。	I usually wake up early.
部分	影片的一些bu4fen5以慢动作重放。	Parts of the film were shown again in slow motion.
停	飞机ting2在那个大机库里。	The plane stopped in that big hangar.
父亲	他很敬佩他的fu4qin5。	He has a great respect for his father.
从来	我cong2lai2不是爱挑拣的人。	I'm never one to pick and choose.
情况	裁军谈判的最新qing2kuang4怎麽样?	What is the latest state of play in the disarmament talks?
真正	你缺席的zhen1zheng4原因是什么？	What was the real reason for your absence?
改变	法官劝告他gai3bian4生活方式。	The judge advised him to amend his way of living.
内	校园nei4严禁吸烟。	The prohibition against smoking on school grounds is strictly enforced.
生命	科学家猜测在金星上没有sheng1ming4。	The scientists guess that Venus is lifeless.
留	liu2点力气准备攀登吧.	Reserve your strength for the climb.
讨厌	tao3yan4极了，不是吗?	Horrible, isn't it?
倒	【谚】人dao4众人踩。	If a man once fall, all will tread on him.
出现	我的各种问题似乎同时chu1xian4了	All my troubles seem to come together.
安全	＂幸好，这种飞机好象相当an1quan2。＂	Fortunately, the planes appear to be quite safe.""
警察	jing3cha2正在调查这件谋杀案。	The police are investigating the murder.
俩	为避免受饥寒之苦，夫妻lia3不得不双双工作	Both spouses had to take jobs in order to keep the wolf from the door.
计划	该ji4hua4有三个目的。	The plan has a triple purpose.
通过	议案tong1guo4后成了法律。	The bill passed and became law.
放弃	她fang4qi4了这辆车的所有权.	She disclaimed ownership of the vehicle.
拉	他la1弓放了一箭.	He shot an arrow from his bow.
是否	他们问他质量shi4fou3好。	They asked him whether the quality is fine or not.
接受	这个计划被普遍地jie1shou4了。	The plan has been generally accepted.
进行	这场演出正在jin4xing2实况转播.	This show is going out live.
信息	她如饥似渴地收集一切有关的xin4xi1。	She gobbled up all the relevant information.
原因	警方开始调查事故的yuan2yin1。	The police instituted an inquiry into the cause of the accident.
坚持	我们鼓励他jian1chi2自己对此事的看法。	We encouraged him to assert his view of the matter.
转	黑夜zhuan3瞬而至.	Night was fast approaching.
竟然	他再试一次，jing4ran2还是失败。	He tried a second time only to fail again.
台	我想买一tai2空调。	I want to buy a set of air conditioning.
正式	这封信是用zheng4shi4文体写的。	The letter is written in formal style.
甚至	政府shen4zhi4不考虑他的赔款要求。	The government would not even consider his claim for money.
确实	我que4shi2很好，谢谢您。	I'm very well indeed, thank you.
难道	你怎麽竟然做出这种事? 你nan2dao4不知羞耻吗?	How could you do such a thing? Have you no shame?
麻烦	叫你怎麽做就怎麽做, 否则有ma2fan5.	Do as you're told, otherwise you'll be in trouble.
表演	我喜欢看那个魔术师的biao3yan3。	I like watching the performance of that magician.
增加	我们亟需zeng1jia1工作人员。	Our immediate requirement is extra staff.
保护	这座城堡建于高处是为bao3hu4城市。	This citadel is built on high ground for protecting the city.
当时	是真的还是我dang1shi2在做梦?	Was it real or did I dream it?
至少	他zhi4shao3跟珍一样对谱曲很感兴趣。	He is not less interested in composing music than Jane.
样子	她学撒切尔夫人的yang4zi5倒挺像哩。	She does Mrs. Thatcher rather well.
联系	我留下了张条子以便与她取得lian2xi4。	I left a message so as to be sure of contacting her.
美丽	她是一个mei3li4的少女。	She is a bonny lass.
保证	人们应经常洗澡以bao3zheng4个人卫生。	People should wash regularly to ensure personal hygiene.
感情	深奥知识、gan3qing2或意义的深处	Depth of intellect, feeling, or meaning.
能力	这三个人根据各自的neng2li4被分配了工作。	The three men were given work according to their respective abilities.
秒	该冠军领先十八miao3.	The champion is leading by eighteen seconds.
直接	他们zhi2jie1从厂商那里购买了这台机器。	They bought the machine directly from the manufacturer.
免费	市民可以mian3fei4使用这个图书馆。	Citizens may have free access to the library.
本来	这套房间ben3lai2是准备给5口人住的。	The apartment was originally meant for five.
座	我们在御zuo4前跪下.	We knelt before the throne.
解释	律师向我们jie3shi4了新法律。	The lawyer explained the new law to us.
同时	我喜欢滑雪, tong2shi2也知道这非常危险。	I like skiing and in the meantime, I know it is very dangerous.
对于	个人清洁dui4yu2健康和仪表同样重要。	Personal cleanliness is important to health as well as to appearance.
理解	我又提示他一次, 他还是不li3jie3（那答案）.	I gave him another clue, but he still didn't twig (the answer).
使用	你会shi3yong4车床吗?	Do you know how to use a lathe?
值得	伦敦是zhi2de5参观的城市。	London is a city worth visiting.
精彩	你的jing1cai3报告引出了几个重要问题。	Your interesting report raises several important queries.
证明	我zheng4ming2他已经收到了你的钱。	I certify that he has received your money.
实在	我shi2zai4讨厌让我等着。	I really hate being kept waiting.
周围	一群人很快便聚集在他的zhou1wei2。	A crowd soon gathered round him.
方法	她处理政治问题的fang1fa3很科学。	She has a very scientific method of dealing with political problems.
出发	他精神抖擞准备chu1fa1.	He's full of sap and ready to start.
原谅	对不起；请yuan2liang4。	I beg your pardon.
咱们	zan2men5去吃点冰淇淋凉快凉快吧。	Let's go and have icecream to cool off.
经历	那是一次不光彩的jing1li4。	It is an experience of humiliation.
满	地上man3是蚂蚁.	The ground was crawling with ants.
戴	他的帽子没dai4正.	His hat isn't on straight.
即使	ji2shi3你不喜欢这工作，你也得做。	Even though you do not like it, you must do it.
可惜	你今晚不能和我们一起去看戏, 真ke3xi1.	What a pity that you can't come to the theatre with us tonight.
重新	有些罪犯被释放后有可能chong2xin1犯罪。	Some criminals are likely to offend again when they are released.
挂	把画gua4在窗户对面的墙上.	Hang the picture on the wall opposite the window.
母亲	每个mu3qin1都爱她的孩子。	Every mother has affection for her children.
适合	秋天比任何季节都shi4he2读书。	Autumn is better for reading than any other season.
调查	公司雇佣了一名侦探来diao4cha2这次事故。	The company hired a detective to investigate the accident.
阳光	所有的植物都需要水和yang2guang1。	All plants need water and light.
正常	她的体温高於[低於]zheng4chang2标准.	Her temperature is above/below normal.
全部	她把quan2bu4存款取出後离开了那个国家.	She withdrew all her savings and left the country.
其中	孩子们在河边玩耍, 突然qi2zhong1一个滑了一跤跌进河里.	The children were playing by the river when one of them slipped and fell in.
回忆	你能hui2yi4起多久以前的事情？	How far does your memory go back?
味道	这种酒的wei4dao4美极了。	This wine is most pleasing to the taste.
无论	wu2lun4在哪一方面他都不能被看作是个好丈夫。	In no respect can he be looked upon as a good husband.
内容	我喜欢他的写作风格，但是不喜欢他的nei4rong2。	I like the style of his writing but I don't like the content.
自然	动物园里的动物不是生活在zi4ran5环境中。	Animals in zoos are not in their natural surroundings.
紧张	乘飞机旅行前他jin3zhang1不安。	He was nervous before the plane trip.
约会	我下周有几个yue1hui4.	I have several engagements for next week.
危险	在这河里游泳wei1xian3。	This river is dangerous to bathe in.
乱	孩子们到处luan4闯.	The children were rushing about.
有趣	他没有意识到处境的you3qu4方面.	He didn't appreciate the comedy of the situation.
丢	那个学生昨天diu1了书。	That student lost his book yesterday.
光	把你的青菜吃guang1。	Eat up your vegetables.
轻松	我们可以qing1song1地开始工作。	We can set to work with a light heart.
顺利	分娩进行得很shun4li4，一会儿她就抱着一个女婴儿了。	The birth proceeded smoothly. Soon she was holding a baby girl.
抱	她把孩子bao4在怀里.	She nestled the baby in her arms.
皮肤	鞋子擦破了她脚上的pi2fu1。	Her shoes chafed the skin on her feet.
社会	我爷爷在旧she4hui4死于饥饿。	My grandpa died of hunger in the old days.
浪漫	她写了很多lang4man4小说，质量很差。	She churns out romantic novels.
于是	马感觉到了危险，yu2shi4停了下来。	The horse sensed danger and stopped.
主意	他给他们出zhu3yi5怎样制止侵略。	He advised them how to stop the invasion.
大概	我通常da4gai47点起床。	I used to get up at about seven.
并且	他与一名英国女子结婚bing4qie3定居在伦敦。	He married an English woman and took up his residence in London.
语言	人们误以为选修yu3yan2课程较轻松“	Language courses are wrongly thought to be soft options.
随便	图书管理员从书架上sui2bian4拿了一本书。	The librarian took a book at random from the shelf.
可怜	这个ke3lian2的人是一个采煤工。	The poor man is a coal digger.
篇	咱们把这pian1稿子再过一遍。	Let's go over the draft once again.
聚会	参加ju4hui4的男子大都非常年轻。	The men at the party were mostly fairly young.
压力	水坝在水的ya1li4下终於决口.	The dam eventually yielded and collapsed under the weight of water.
兴奋	她一走进剧院就引起了一阵xing1fen4。	There was a stir of excitement as she entered the theatre.
建议	委员会jian4yi4著手起草新法规.	The committee proposed that new legislation should be drafted.
感动	他被gan3dong4得流下了眼泪。	He was softened into tears.
赶	我们几乎来不及gan3火车.	We barely had time to catch the train.
错误	哎呀, 我又犯了愚蠢的cuo4wu4.	Oh dear, I've boobed again.
破	我把袜子穿po4了.	I've worn holes in my socks.
严重	政府不允许报道那起yan2zhong4事故。	The government didn't allow reporting the terrible accident.
表示	他biao3shi4了振振有词的抗议。	He expressed voluble protests.
另外	彼得是我们最小的孩子, 我们ling4wai4还有三个孩子.	Peter is our youngest child, and we have three others besides.
失望	我们对我们的新老师很shi1wang4。	We are disappointed in our new teacher.
辛苦	我挣的每一便士都是xin1ku3工作得来的。	I have had to work for every single penny I earned.
要是	yao4shi4我再有一次机会就好了。	If only I had another chance.
失败	他的shi1bai4是再明白不过了。	His failure is as plain as plain can be.
躺	尸体tang3在血泊中.	The body was lying in a pool of blood.
安排	我希望这些an1pai2会得到你的同意。	I hope the arrangements meet with your approval.
肚子	他好容易找到一家餐馆去填饱du3zi5。	He hunted up a restaurant to appease his hunger.
骗	他pian4我把自行车借给了他。	He beguiled me into lending him my bicycle.
放松	游完泳后你愿意fang4song1一下吗？	Would you like to have some relaxation after swimming?
广告	登一则招聘guang3gao4，也许有用。	Insert a want ad, and it may help.
赚	玛丽所有的钱是怎么zhuan4到的？	How did Mary make all of her money?
研究	她兼做导师工作和yan2jiu1工作.	Her work was divided between tutoring and research.
伤心	你离家不归, 你母亲极为shang1xin1.	Your mother is very grieved by your refusal to return home.
到处	草地上dao4chu4都是蘑菇.	The lawn was covered with fungus.
毛	被有短mao2或柔软绒mao2的	Covered with short hairs or soft down.
意见	他向我提了一些很好的yi4jian4。	He gave me some good advice.
否则	不要这么赶，fou3ze2你可能会出事故。	Do not rush or you may have an accident.
负责	她自己fu4ze2膳宿，她叔叔供给她学费。	She pays for her board and lodging, her uncle finds her in tuition.
拒绝	他向我求婚，但我ju4jue2了。	He asked me to marry him but I refused.
扔	我往火里reng1了一根木炭。	I threw a stick of charcoal in the fire.
说明	他难以shuo1ming2她为什麽不见了.	He was hard put (to it) to explain her disappearance.
厉害	贼车被撞坏得很li4hai5，容易辩认出来。	The thieves' car was badly damaged and easy to recognize.
浪费	这是十足的lang4fei4时间。	That has been a thorough waste of time.
难受	看到动物受痛苦是很nan2shou4的。	A suffering animal is a distressing sight.
冷静	我们在危险的时候应该保持leng3jing4。	We should keep our composure in danger.
千万	《每日回声报》拥有读者逾一qian1wan4人。	The Daily Echo has a readership of over ten million.
激动	她的眼睛里闪耀出ji1dong4的神色。	Her eyes kindled with excitement.
许多	我想我们能从中学到xu3duo1。	I think we may learn much from it.
详细	旅游团成员从导游那里拿到xiang2xi4的日程表。	The member of the group is given a detailed tour itinerary by the courier.
提供	关于此事，你能给我ti2gong1什么消息吗？	Can you give me any information on this matter?
专业	他大学时的zhuan1ye4是国际贸易。	He majored in international commerce in college.
发展	这种fa1zhan3与我们的利益背道而驰。	The development was adverse to our interests.
钥匙	我把yao4shi5掉在这附近某个地方了。	I dropped my key somewhere about here.
收拾	他shou1shi5行李，让我们等了好半天。	He kept us waiting for ages while he packed his luggage.
方面	我fang1mian4鱼雷艇向敌巡洋舰冲去。	Our torpedo boats bore down on the enemy cruiser.
既然	ji4ran2她病得厉害, 我们要马上去请医生。	Since she is seriously ill, we have to send for a doctor at once.
生意	李把他在sheng1yi5中的道德标准运用到私人关系中去。	Lee carries over his business ethics into his personal relationships.
首先	shou3xian1，要向杯子里放一小片锌板。	You should first put a small piece of zinc plate into the cup.
差不多	我认为我们对这一问题已cha4bu4duo1是言无不尽了.	I think we've just about exhausted that subject.
正确	只有时间才能证明你是否zheng4que4。	Only time will tell if you are right.
提醒	这事你本可以ti2xing3我的。	You might've reminded me of that.
号码	让我记下你的地址和电话hao4ma3。	Let me note down your address and telephone number.
动作	影片中的声音必须与dong4zuo4配合一致.	The sound on a film must synchronize with the action.
估计	我gu1ji4大约要100英镑.	I reckon it will cost about 100.
效果	惩罚对这孩子似乎没什么xiao4guo3。	Punishment seemed to make no impression on the child.
比如	他的几个朋友来了, bi3ru2本、 卡罗尔、 麦克.	Several of his friends came: Ben, Carol and Mike, for instance.
距离	我跑过的最长的ju4li2是十英里.	The farthest distance I've run is ten miles.
后悔	她做出决定后立即感到hou4hui3。	She immediately regretted her decision.
态度	他认为，美国应保持超然tai4du5。	The United States should, he argues, attempt to remain aloof.
关键	教师在学习中的guan1jian4作用是不该忽视的。	The key role of the teacher in the learning process should not be neglected.
因此	他努力学习，yin1ci3通过了考试。	He studied hard, and in consequence he passed the exam.
不得不	他刚刚到达就bu4de2 bu4又离开。	Scarcely had he arrived when he had to leave again.
责任	她承担了做部长的所有ze2ren4.	She undertook to discharge all the responsibilities of a Minister.
方向	他们都往同一fang1xiang4走了.	They all went off in one direction.
十分	我听了这消息shi2fen1不安.	The news had me worried.
过程	损耗，减损损耗的行为或guo4cheng2	The act or process of depleting.
左右	事故发生在9点30分zuo3you4.	The accident happened/occurred at about 9.30.
技术	我想驾驶滑翔机一定需要些ji4shu4。	I guess it must require some skills to fly a glider.
愉快	祝您旅途yu2kuai4。	I wish you a pleasant journey.
道歉	我还能有别的方法可以向她dao4qian4吗？	How else can I apologize for her?
国际	在guo2ji4市场上，我们的商品不亚于任何人。	Our goods are second to none on the world market.
仍然	我reng2ran2弄不清楚你所强调的要点。	I still don't see the point you emphasized.
怀疑	我huai2yi2，不，我肯定他错了。	I suspect, nay, I am certain, that he is wrong.
演员	他是一个成功的性格yan3yuan2。	He is a successful character actor.
受到	他应当shou4dao4惩罚。	He deserved to be punished.
打扰	对不起da3rao3一下, 请问去车站怎麽走?	I'm sorry to bother you, but could you tell me the way to the station?
接着	他在一家汽车旅馆呆了一晚上，就又jie1zhe5旅行了。	He stayed one night in a motel and went on travelling.
讨论	他昨天参加了我们的tao3lun4。	He joined us in the discussion yesterday.
允许	为什麽yun3xu3这些人随意进入该地?	Why give these people licence to enter the place at will?
地球	di4qiu2的圆周长约为25000.	The circumference of the earth is almost 25000 miles/The earth is almost 25000 miles in circumference.
尽管	jin3guan3我努力劝说，他还是不同意。	In spite of my efforts at persuasion, he wouldn't agree.
价格	这件衣服的jia4ge2太高了。	The price of this dress is unreasonable.
经验	他的jing1yan4缓慢地成熟。	His experience has a slow maturity.
教育	勉强他做事不是jiao4yu4孩子的办法。	It is not the way to educate a child by making him do things against his will.
羡慕	孩子们很xian4mu4故事中生活在仙境里的仙女们。	Children admire the fairies in that tale living in cloud cuckoo land.
邀请	她yao1qing3我吃饭以表示她的感激。	She showed me her gratitude by inviting me to dinner.
困难	他用心解决这个kun4nan5问题。	He applied his mind to the difficulty.
究竟	没有汽车你jiu1jing4是怎样来的呢?	However did you get here without a car?
自信	这就是过於zi4xin4的结果.	This is what comes of being over-confident.
通知	警方已tong1zhi1各店主留意伪钞.	The police have warned shopkeepers about the forged banknotes.
小说	我舒适地靠在大沙发上，开始看xiao3shuo1。	I nestled down on the big sofa and began to read novels.
年龄	nian2ling2的大小往往与发病率有关.	We can often correlate age with frequency of illness.
巧克力	这些qiao3ke4li4真正是入口即化。	These chocolates really melt in your mouth.
作用	物理学研究zuo4yong4於物体上的力.	Physics deals with the forces acting on concrete objects.
职业	他在zhi2ye4介绍所登记要当秘书。	He enrolled with an employment agency for a secretary.
合适	这个女孩总是抱怨没有he2shi4的衣服。	The girl always complains about lacking suitable raiment.
脱	天气很暖和，我就把大衣tuo1了。	I took off my overcoat since it was warm.
烦恼	他因对宗教的疑惧而十分fan2nao3。	He was troubled by religious doubt.
毕业	他bi4ye4于爱丁堡大学，获得医学博士学位。	He graduated as an M.D. at Edinburgh.
演出	群众（为他[yan3chu1]）鼓掌五分钟.	The crowd applauded (him/the perfomance) for five minutes.
汤	喂，服务员，这tang1太咸了。	I say, waiter, the soup is too salty.
复杂	那是个fu4za2得无法解决的问题。	It's a problem of such perplexity that it was impossible to solve.
尊重	我非常zun1zhong4他的工作.	I esteem his work highly.
笑话	他动不动就发火，可是过后又把它当xiao4hua5说。	He often carries the short fuse in his pocket and joke about it afterwards.
观众	guan1zhong4起立向那位歌手鼓掌达十分钟.	The singer got a ten-minute standing ovation.
空气	我们出去吸口新鲜kong1qi4吧。	Let's go out for a breath of fresh air.
勇敢	他的yong3gan3应作为我们大家学习的榜样.	His bravery should be an example to all of us.
响	电话xiang3了。	The telephone is ringing.
熟悉	这些印度客人对这本书很shu2xi1。	These Indian guest are familiar with this book.
省	我们得sheng3吃俭用来付帐.	We had to scrimp and save to pay the bills.
推	【谚】墙倒众人tui1。	When a man is going down-hill, everyone will give him a push.
厕所	我憋不住了（要小便）, 得找个ce4suo3.	I can't hold out (ie retain my urine) much longer; I must find a toilet.
由于	you2yu2各种原因，我不愿见他。	For various reasons I'd prefer not to meet him.
提前	你必须ti2qian2两小时到达机场。	You must arrive at the airport two hours early.
申请	委员会一致同意拒绝这项shen1qing3。	The committee were unanimous that the application should be turned down.
辣	这热la4la4的太阳快把我烤焦了！	I am broiling in this hot sun!
逛	为了消磨时间等待展览开始, 我们guang4了guang4商场。	To kill time until the exhibition opened, we looked round the shops.
杂志	这家za2zhi4刊登了一个中学生所写的短篇小说。	The magazine publish a short story write by a high school student.
糖	你的食tang2有富余吗?	Do you have any sugar to spare?
经济	不断发展的jing1ji4使农民们富裕起来。	The expanding economy enriched the peasants.
标准	这位老师给他的学生们定下高biao1zhun3。	The teacher sets high standard for his pupils.
文章	你的wen2zhang1只粗略地涉及到这个问题.	Your essay gives a rather sketchy treatment of the problem.
记者	这家饭馆常有政治家和ji4zhe3光顾.	The restaurant is patronized by politicians and journalists.
互相	警察通过无线电（hu4xiang1）联络.	The police communicate (with each other) by radio.
厨房	盆子和锅在chu2fang2里碰击作响。	Pots and pans were clattering in the kitchen.
优秀	芳廷承袭了芭蕾舞艺术的最you1xiu4的传统	Fonteyn represents the best traditions of ballet.
页	我已经校对完二十ye4了。	I have proofread twenty pages.
顺便	还好。shun4bian4问一下，你母亲怎么样？她好吗？	Not bad. By the way, how is your mother? Is she all right?
艺术	我在斯德哥尔摩大学攻读yi4shu4。	I am studying art at Stockholm University.
流行	在一些热带国家，眼疾很liu2xing2。	Eye diseases are prevalent in some tropical countries.
出生	去年的chu1sheng1人数大于死亡人数。	Last year there were many more births than deaths.
共同	我们正在为达到gong4tong2的目标而努力.	We're working towards common objectives.
餐厅	按学生人数, 我们应该建三个can1ting1。	In proportion to the number of students we should build 3 dining rooms.
正好	表演zheng4hao3进行到一半时停电了。	The light went out bang in the middle of the performance.
反对	我们fan3dui4采取行动。	We are averse to taking action.
懒	她的lan3丈夫成了她的一个包袱。	Her lazy husband is a millstone round her neck.
印象	我总的yin4xiang4是他似乎很和蔼可亲.	My general impression was that he seemed a pleasant man.
目的	奥运会是举世瞩mu4di4体育比赛。	The Olympic Games commands the attention of the world.
往往	报纸的报道wang3wang3不尊重私人权利.	Newspapers often don't respect the individual's right to privacy.
儿童	er2tong2的鞋并不便宜--反而更贵.	Children's shoes aren't cheap quite the reverse.
盐	水能溶解yan2.	Water dissolves salt.
管理	guan3li3部门采取了一切合理的安全措施。	The management took all reasonable safety precautions.
条件	工会为争取更好的工作tiao2jian4而罢工。	The union struck for better work conditions.
脾气	天热的时候人就容易神经紧张[pi2qi5急躁].	Nerves/Tempers began to fray in the heat.
好处	在加利福尼亚居住的hao3chu4就在於气候宜人。	The beauty of living in California is that the weather is so good.
性格	这些年他的xing4ge2已大大成熟。	His character has greatly matured in the years.
引起	忧虑可能会yin3qi3胃部不适。	Anxiety may disorder the stomach.
趟	我好想明年暑假去一tang4欧洲。	I feel like going to Europe for a visit next summer vacation.
丰富	这个国家矿产资源feng1fu4。	The country is rich in minerals.
故意	你gu4yi4和我的想法对著干.	You have deliberately acted against my wishes.
云	yun2是天空中的水汽团。	A cloud is a mass of vapor in the sky.
日记	他的父亲规定他要用英文写ri4ji4。	His father ordered that he (should) keep a diary in English.
数字	这个月的shu4zi4已包含在总数之内。	This month's figures are comprised in the total.
教授	jiao4shou4因他可爱的单纯而上了圈套。	The professor rose to the fly with a charming simplicity.
吸引	我被这个惊人的想法xi1yin3住了。	I was attracted by the striking idea.
理想	我认为我已找到li3xiang3的爱人了。	I think I've met the love of my life.
世纪	他被认为是本shi4ji4第一流的作曲家之一。	He is regarded as one of the classical composers in this century.
开玩笑	你一定是在kai1 wan2xiao4吧。	You must be joking.
交通	他因阻碍公路jiao1tong1而受控告。	He was charged obstructing the highway.
不仅	他们bu4jin3没有前进，反而后退了。	Instead of pressing forward, then drew back.
著名	那位政治家曾是zhu4ming2的社会改革家。	The politician was a famous social reformer.
恐怕	有约在先，我kong3pa4不能与你共进晚餐。	I fear that a prior engagement will prohibit me from joining you in dinner.
地点	咱们定好下次会议的时间和di4dian3吧.	Let's arrange a time and place for our next meeting.
将来	我们的厂长以jiang1lai2销售量为他行动的准绳。	Our factory director hinged his action on future sales.
平时	你ping2shi2如果努力学习，在考试前就不必这样整夜开夜车了。	If you work hard at other times, you won't have to sit up all night before the exam.
购物	我通常星期天gou4wu4。	I usually go shopping on Sundays.
工资	你税后的gong1zi1是多少？	What are your earnings after tax?
仔细	管子工对管道做了zi3xi4的检查。	The plumber made a careful check of the pipes.
排队	他pai2dui4买了一张20便士的地铁车票。	He queued up to by his subway ticket of20 penny.
暂时	大家认为最好zan4shi2放弃这个想法。	It was thought best to drop the idea for the time being.
亲戚	他（跟你）是qin1qi5吗?	Is he any relation (to you)?
科学	天气预报是一门模糊的ke1xue2.	Weather forecasting is an inexact science.
最好	什么是解决这个问题的zui4hao3方法？	What's the best way to tackle this problem?
重点	他的学术报告打算zhong4dian3谈针刺麻醉在脑外科方面的应用。	His lecture is intended to bear down on the application of acupuncture anesthesia in brain surgery.
知识	书是通向zhi1shi5的道路。	Books are avenues to knowledge.
酸	这些苹果不熟，是suan1的。	These apples are not ripe; they are sour.
热闹	斯特兰德大街是伦敦最re4nao4的要道之一。	The Strand is one of London's busiest thoroughfares.
整理	他死後, 他妹妹zheng3li3了他的（私人）财物.	After his death his sister sorted through his (personal) belongings.
饺子	我很想吃jiao3zi5。	I feel like having some dumplings.
现金	如果他们拒绝收支票，我们将不得不付xian4jin1。	If they refuse to accept a cheese we'll have to pay cash.
擦	你把这些靴子好好ca1一下好吗？	Would you put a good shine on these boots?
信心	你的鼓励使我对我的未来更加有xin4xin1。	Your encouragement made me more confident of my future.
厚	城堡的墙很hou4。	The castle walls are very thick.
举	人ju3不起这样的重量.	It is not humanly possible (ie A human is not able) to lift the weight.
加班	这一新定单意味著（我们）得jia1ban1加点.	This new order will mean (us) working overtime.
相同	不论你到哪里，语言几乎是xiang1tong2的。	The language is almost the same wherever one goes.
顾客	他吩咐他到外面跑跑去寻找新的gu4ke4。	He tells him to go out and find new customer.
租	渡假者zu1了一艘船去钓鱼。	The holiday-makers chartered a boat to go fishing.
祝贺	我们得（给那对幸福的夫妇）打个电话表示zhu4he4.	We must telephone our congratulations (to the happy couple).
尤其	代我向玛丽、约翰，you2qi2向爷爷问好。	Give my regards to Mary, John and by especial to Grandpa.
护士	hu4shi5正在给婴儿洗澡。	The nurses were bathing the babies.
穷	他qiong2得无法买新衣。	He was too poor to buy a new coat.
看法	我认为他的一些kan4fa3并不怎么样。	I don't think much of his ideas.
适应	我们的眼睛慢慢地shi4ying4了黑暗的环境.	Our eyes slowly adapted to the dark.
区别	请注意这两个词之间的qu1bie2。	Please pay attention to the difference between the two words.
师傅	刘shi1fu5把每道工序做给我们看，然后让我们自己干。	Master Liu demonstrated to us each process, and let us do it ourselves.
森林	他们步行穿过sen1lin2，呼吸着松树的芳香。	They walked through the forest breathing the scent of pines.
植物	光和水封zhi2wu4是必要的。	Light and water are necessary to plants.
存	我想cun2点儿钱。	I'd like to deposit some money.
交流	谈话jiao1liu2思想、观点或感情的会话；一次交谈	A spoken exchange of thoughts, opinions, and feelings; a talk.
眼镜	你没拿我的yan3jing4吧？	Don't you have my glasses?
按照	我们将an4zhao4历史上的先后顺序研究这些事件。	We will deal with events in historical sequence.
沙发	他斜靠在sha1fa1的背上。	He leant on the back of the sofa.
只好	我们不必争论已经决定的事--zhi3hao3听他的.	Let's not argue the toss we have to accept his choice.
窗户	那小女孩把鼻子贴在chuang1hu5上。	The child pressed her nose against the window.
随着	sui2zhe5太阳的落下，夜晚悄悄地来到。	With the setting of the sun, night comes silently.
小伙子	他是个不错的xiao3huo3zi5, 但好像没有什麽进取心.	He's a nice enough lad, but he doesn't seem to have much gumption.
桥	qiao2已毁坏, 我们无法过河.	The bridge was destroyed so we couldn't get across (ie cross) the river.
质量	他们的货物zhi4liang4很好。	Their merchandise is of high quality.
公里	飞机以每小时900gong1li3的速度飞行。	The airplane flies at 900 kilometers an hour.
规定	并非所有外宾均符合入境gui1ding4.	Not all foreign visitors satisfy/fulfil legal entry requirements.
学期	这xue2qi1他的写作有了很大进步。	His writing has improved greatly in this semester.
盒子	小猫把那个he2zi5当做它的床。	The kitten uses that box as its bed.
耐心	我必须告诉你，他的nai4xin1是有限的。	I must tell you that his patience has its limit.
收入	她为获得额外shou1ru4决定租出一个房间.	She decided to rent out a room to get extra income.
举行	明天ju3xing2200米预赛.	The heats of the 200 metres will be run off tomorrow.
镜子	他对著jing4zi5看领带是否系正.	He looked in the glass to check that his tie was straight.
材料	铸铁是一种比钢便宜得多的cai2liao4。	Cast-iron is a much less expensive material than steel.
减少	缓冲器使震动jian3shao3了许多.	Buffers absorbed most of the shock.
打扮	她da3ban4停当准备去参加晚会。	She dressed up for the party.
积极	我们班的学生比他们班的那些更不ji1ji2。	The student of our class is not positively than those of their class.
入口	雨伞可放於ru4kou3处.	You can leave your umbrella in the entry.
总结	好学生通常都知道如何及时迅速地zong3jie2知识。	A good student usually knows how to sum up knowledge in good time.
友谊	我珍惜你的you3yi4。	I treasure your friendship.
大约	这所中学da4yue1有300个学生。	There are 300 students or so in this middle school.
富	儿童都很fu4於幻想.	Children are very fanciful.
抽烟	科学研究表明90％的肺癌是由chou1yan1引起。肺癌患者死亡率估计占85％。	A scientific research shows that90% of lung cancer is caused by smoking and85% of lung cancer patients are expected to die.
数量	中等的中等的或一般的shu4liang4或范围的	Of medium or average quantity or extent.
竞争	美国是一个充满jing4zheng1的社会。	America is a competitive society.
幽默	剧中多处you1mo4地提到人类的弱点。	There are many humorous allusions to human foibles in the drama.
干杯	让我为你的健康gan1bei1。	Let me drink to your health.
饼干	晚饭前，他吃了一些bing3gan1。	He had some biscuits before the dinner.
广播	英国guang3bo1公司向全世界播送节目。	The BBC broadcasts all over the world.
实际	shi2ji4经验证明这个理论是错误的。	Practical experience belies this theory.
误会	这一切wu4hui4都是他在无意中造成的.	He was the unknowing cause of all the misunderstanding.
阅读	我认为大量yue4du2是必要的。	I think it's necessary for us to read a lot.
及时	ji2shi2的在一个适当或适宜的时间发生的；适时的	Occurring at a suitable or opportune time; well-timed.
稍微	他shao1wei1会一点儿日语.	He has some little acquaintance with the Japanese language.
航班	因为地震，每天飞往这个城市的hang2ban1暂停了。	The daily flight to the city has been temporarily suspended because of the earthquake.
对面	把这些信送到dui4mian4邮局去。	Take these letters over to the post office.
座位	请为我预定一个zuo4wei4。	Please reserve a seat for me.
温度	他们喜欢这wen1du4吗?	Did they find the temperature to their liking?
符合	厂家已在试验制造，完全fu2he2所要求的规格，可望在两周内完成。	Maker make trial product exactly conform specification expect completion within fortnight.
禁止	反核武器组织要求jin4zhi3使用核武器.	Anti-nuclear organizations want to ban the bomb.
诚实	cheng2shi2是最明智的。	Honesty is the best policy.
脏	这个地方zang4极了，我不相信有人能住在这。	This place is filthy; I don't believe anyone can live here.
鼓励	我妈妈gu3li4我，而且坚持我应该继续我的教育。	My mother encouraged me and insisted that I continue my education.
得意	他总是把话头引到他de2yi4的话题上去。	He always leads up to his favorite topic.
对话	大多数戏剧都是用dui4hua4体写的.	Most plays are written in dialogue.
缺点	他对自己的que1dian3十分清楚。	He was very conscious of his shortcomings.
报名	由于找不到工作，许我男人都bao4ming2参了军。	Many men sign up for the army because they can not get ordinary jobs.
基础	我们是在试验的ji1chu3上得出这个结论的。	We drew this conclusion on the basis of experiments.
咳嗽	她扎入水中, 浮上来时呛得连ke2sou5带喷水.	She dived into the water and came up coughing and spluttering.
同情	他的痛苦引起了我们的tong2qing2。	His sufferings aroused our sympathy.
作家	他被公认为现代最杰出的zuo4jia1之一。	He is generally rated as one of the best modern writers.
海洋	与其说是hai3yang2分割这个世界，不如说是统一这个世界。	The oceans do not so much divide the world as unite it. (=The oceans do not divide the world so much as unite it.)
准时	那辆火车三点钟zhun3shi2到达。	The train arrived on the dot of three o'clock.
判断	只有练习能帮你熟练地用眼作出pan4duan4。	Only practice can help you to keep your eye in.
吃惊	发现她在那，我感到很chi1jing1。	I was amazed to find her there.
专门	这些珍贵的老虎受到zhuan1men2法律的保护。	These rare tigers are protected by special laws.
礼貌	当众吐痰是不li3mao4的行为。	It's the bad manner to spit in public.
敲	谁在qiao1鼓?	Who's beating the drum?
降低	别jiang4di1身份为这事去跟她争吵。	Don't stoop to quarrel with her about it.
棵	他倚著一ke1树.	He was leaning against a tree.
散步	如果天不晴，我们就不去san4bu4。	If the weather doesn't clear, we won't go for a walk.
民族	说阿拉伯语的人说阿拉伯语min2zu2的一个成员	A member of an Arabic-speaking people.
力气	衰弱的缺乏li4qi5或活力的；虚弱的	Lacking strength or vigor; weak.
作者	该书的缺点在於zuo4zhe3未能把论证展开.	The book's weakness is the author's inability to sustain an argument.
商量	我和她shang1liang5过我的报告。	I consulted with her about my report.
举办	他不顾父母的反对决心ju3ban4这桩婚事.	He's determined to go through with the marriage despite his parents' opposition.
批评	本身行为不正, 则不宜pi1ping2别人.	You can ill afford to criticize others when you behave so badly yourself.
老虎	在过去的五十年里，lao3hu3的数目锐减。	The number of tigers has reduced abruptly in the last fifty years.
胳膊	他的左ge1bo5在一次事故中受伤了。	His left arm was hurt in an accident.
袜子	一个钉子挂破了我的wa4zi5。	I ripped my stocking on a nail.
缺少	我们的主要问题就是que1shao3时间。	Our principal problem is lack of time.
大夫	你不请dai4fu5来, 他就得死了.	He will certainly die if you don't call a doctor.
孙子	老妇人和她sun1zi5间有种莫名其妙的心灵相通的感觉.	There is a strange empathy between the old lady and her grandson.
害羞	遇见大人使这个hai4xiu1的孩子很困窘	Meeting adults embarrassed the shy child.
奖金	工作完成了--好倒是好--但是答应给我们的jiang3jin1给不给?	The job's done, that's all well and good but what about the bonus we were promised?
网球	我上司让我给这位新wang3qiu2冠军写篇小传。	My boss asked me to write a profile for the new tennis champion.
相反	他们针对我们的建议提出了一项xiang1fan3的建议.	They countered our proposal with one of their own.
污染	化工厂发生爆炸引起了害怕wu1ran3的巨大恐慌.	The explosion at the chemical factory caused a major pollution scare.
严格	她对她的孩子们很yan2ge2。	She is strict with her children.
亚洲	那个Ya4zhou1人拦住我，问我是不是中国人。	That Asian stopped me and asked if I was Chinese.
迷路	要不是这位好心的向导，我可能就在山中mi2lu4了。	Had it not been for the kind guide, I might have got lost in the mountains.
准确	他能zhun3que4流利地说英语。	He can speak English fluently and accurately.
重视	他觉得这所学校对戏剧不够zhong4shi4.	He feels that there is not enough stress on drama at the school.
客厅	摇滚乐声震屋宇，从ke4ting1传来。	Rock music blasted full from the parlor.
友好	有些印第安人对我们很you3hao3。	Some Indians are friendly to us.
葡萄	他为我从藤上剪下了一些pu2tao2。	He cut some grapes for me from the vine.
果汁	倒guo3zhi1前，先把瓶子摇几下。	Give the bottle a couple of shakes before pouring the juice.
家具	我们得给我们的新房子买些jia1ju4。	We will buy some furniture for our new house.
优点	他们因偏见而对计划的you1dian3视而不见	Prejudice that blinded them to the merits of the proposal.
参观	他们估计can1guan1者人数为1000万。	They estimated the number of visitors at 10 million.
暖和	nuan3huo5的天气诱使我们去游泳.	The warm weather tempted us into going for a swim.
首都	shou3du1在这个国家的最南端。	The capital is in the extreme south of the country.
降落	他把滑翔机jiang4luo4在田地里了.	He put the glider down in a field.
毛巾	请把那条mao2jin1给我扔过来.	Please throw me that towel.
特点	相应te4dian3相互联系的，尤指具有相应te4dian3的	Related by a correlation, especially having corresponding characteristics.
出差	我将在这星期或下星期chu1chai1。	I will go on business either this week or next week.
例如	li4ru2，我们的一艘货轮上星期在台风中沉了。	For instance, one of our cargo ships sank last week in typhoon.
西红柿	xi1hong2shi4的短缺提高了它的价格。	The shortage of tomatoes kept the prices up.
按时	我们将an4shi2到达，是吗？	We'll be on time, won't we?
修理	他把汽车送到修车厂xiu1li3。	He sent his car to the garage for repair.
活泼	她的huo2po5与兴高采烈的情绪把他迷住了.	He was charmed by her vivacity and high spirits.
积累	存资料区域专用来贮存ji1lei3资料的储存区域	A section of storage reserved for storing accumulated data.
顺序	当shun4xu4写操作超出文件原长度时，在文件末端另分配给该文件的空间量。	The amount of space to be allocated at the end of a file each time a sequential write exceeds the allocated length of the file.
其次	我首先是一个教师, qi2ci4才是一个作家。	I am a teacher in the first place and a writer in the next place.
养成	我喜欢乳酪果酱，不过这是后天yang3cheng2的一种嗜好。	I like jam with cheese, but it's an acquired taste.
招聘	｀zhao1pin4秘书: 须有经验.＇	`Secretary wanted: previous experience essential.'
景色	谁都无法形容这jing3se4的美丽。	There is no describing the beauty of the scene.
合格	他驾驶考试he2ge2使大家很惊奇.	He amazed everyone by passing his driving test.
来得及	我还没lai2de5ji2给他盖好被子，他就睡着了。	He was asleep before I tucked him in.
表扬	她父亲很严厉，他从来没有biao3yang2过她。	She had a stern father who never praised her.
牙膏	他将管子里的最後一点ya2gao1挤了出来。	He squeezed out the last bit of toothpaste from the tube.
打针	我讨厌da3zhen1。	I hate injection.
性别	不论阶级，种族，xing4bie2，人人都可进这所学校上课。	Everybody can come to this school, without respect to class, race, or sex.
签证	他申请出国qian1zheng4经历了很大的困难。	He experienced great difficulty in getting a visa to leave the country.
叶子	很多树冬天时就掉光了ye4zi5。	Many trees are leafless in winter.
普遍	这些观点在知识分子中很pu3bian4。	These views were common among intellectuals.
推迟	这次飞行由于技术的原因而被tui1chi2。	The flight was delayed owing to technical reasons.
表格	请把你的各项开支列在这张biao3ge2上，好吗？	Could you detail all your expenses on this form?
信封	我用了一个邮资已付的xin4feng1。	I use a prepaid envelope.
来不及	我已lai2bu5ji2做准备了.	I had no time in which to prepare.
打招呼	他愉快地跟我们da3 zhao1hu5。	He gave us a cheery greeting.
气候	你会很快习惯这里的qi4hou4的。	You will soon get accustomed to the climate here.
房东	我们的律师劝告不要起诉fang2dong1。	Our lawyer have advise against suing the landlord.
付款	在补偿贸易中，fu4kuan3以货物而不是用外汇进行。	In compensation trade payment is made by goods and not by for deign exchange.
理发	我到那里去li3fa4。	I go there for a haircut.
勺子	她把糖放进咖啡里，用shao2zi5把它们混合起来。	She put the sugar into the coffee and mixed them up with a spoon.
打印	给我一份da3yin4出的统计资料.	Get me a printout of the statistics.
导游	dao3you2带领游客参观博物馆.	A guide conducted the visitors round the museum.
节约	这种新型设计能提高速度、 jie2yue1燃料.	The new model delivers speed and fuel economy.
传真	上星期我正在度假, 没收到你们的chuan2zhen1。	I was on vacation last week and didn't receive your fax.
大使馆	da4shi3guan3的两名随员已驱逐出境.	Two attaches at the embassy were expelled from the country.
郊区	他们在jiao1qu1从一家钢铁厂前面经过。	On the outskirts they passed a steel mill.
零钱	你能找换5英镑的ling2qian2吗?	Would you by any chance have change for 5?
邮局	在你的右边能看到那个you2ju2.	You'll see the post office on your right.
高速公路	gao1su4 gong1lu4多已取代了普通公路.	Motorways have largely superseded ordinary roads for long-distance travel.
羽毛球	yu3mao2qiu2有些像网球吗？-""不，根本不同。""	Is badminton anything like tennis? ""-""No, as different as chalk from cheese.""
排列	词典中的词是按字母顺序pai2lie4的.	The words in the dictionary are arranged in alphabetical order.
乒乓球	他爱好打ping1pang1qiu2。	He is keen on table-tennis.
凉快	下点雨会使我们感到liang2kuai4一些。	Some rain would cool us down.
复印	你把议事日程表给（我）fu4yin4二十份好吗?	Could you run (me) off twenty copies of the agenda?
粗心	那个cu1xin1的侍者把盘子摔到了地上。	The careless waiter dropped the dish onto the ground.
语法	规范yu3fa3阐述的是该派yu3fa3学家认为的某语言的口语或书面语的标准形式.	A normative grammar of a language describes how its authors think the language should be spoken or written.
词语	词书编纂者必须精於给ci2yu3下定义的技巧.	Dictionary writers must be skilled in the art of definition.
国籍	纽约是不同guo2ji2的人的聚居地.	New York is a vast melting-pot of different nationalities.
礼拜天	li3bai4tian1洗车怎么样？	What about washing the car on Sunday?
流利	她说的斯瓦希里语非常liu2li4.	She speaks Swahili with great fluency.
百分之	日本一家公司同意就手表不精确向我们赔偿总价值的bai3 fen1zhi1四。	The Japanese Company agreed to compensate us for the defective watches by4% of the total value.
啊	a5，我真喜欢这首歌！好高兴！	Ah, I really love this song! I am so glad!
把	ba3这本书给她。	Give her the book.
自己	每个人都有zi4ji3的名字.	Each man has his own name.
只	拍那zhi3苍蝇.	Give that fly a swat.
被	决议bei4搁置。	The decision was set aside.
为	他们wei4远征治装.	They equipped themselves for the expedition.
如果	ru2guo3他现在回来怎么办？	What if he comes back now?
跟	别gen1我再说这事了。	I wouldn't hear of it.
用	我yong4大镰刀割草。	I use a scythe for cutting grass.
才	我cai2不要你的臭钱呢.	I don't want your stinking money.
更	今年的开始将会geng4好。	The commencement of this year will be better.
需要	你现在xu1yao4的就是放假。	A holiday will be just the thing for you.
起来	两把椅子坐qi3lai5都不舒服。	Neither chair is comfortable.
还是	你到美国是坐船hai2shi4坐飞机？	Are you going to America by boat or by plane?
一样	我爱她就像爱自己的女儿yi1yang4。	I have loved her like a father should.
发现	医生fa1xian4她患乳癌.	Doctors found a cancer on her breast.
拿	他伸手去na2枪.	He reached for his gun.
应该	老师不ying1gai1体罚学生。	A teacher should not give students corporal punishment.
带	他dai4着姐姐一同去。	He took his sister along with him.
然后	他把烟灰磕掉，ran2hou4继续往下说。	He knocked the ash off his pipe before he went on.
一直	她yi1zhi2想成名。	She has always been desirous of fame.
世界	长江是shi4jie4上最长的河流之一。	The Changjiang River is one of the longest rivers in the world.
一定	我们横渡时风浪yi1ding4很大。	Storm when we transverse is certainly very big.
分	你太过fen1了！	You've gone too far!
放	他把钱fang4在柜台上.	He placed the money on the counter.
老	【谚】学习不嫌lao3。	You are never too old to learn.
相信	你xiang1xin4有仙女吗？	Do you believe in fairies?
最后	zui4hou4他终于成功地解决了这个问题。	At last he successfully solved the problem.
地方	在这些高的di4fang5很难呼吸.	It is difficult to breathe at these altitudes.
终于	他zhong1yu2露出了他那邪恶的用心。	He showed his sinister motive at last.
别人	他有权威，但并不想控制bie2ren5。	He has authority, but he doesn't try to dominate others.
游戏	学习英语口语不只是玩you2xi4而已。	Spoken English learning is not all beer and skittle.
明白	我向他们做了ming2bai5的解释。	I made a lucid explanation to them.
先	我xian1去定好座位吧。	Suppose I reserve seats in advance.
认为	我ren4wei2不能责怪他.	I cannot accept that he is to blame.
为了	这是wei4le5对她自己有好处。	It is for her own good.
当然	dang1ran2，我们从小学就是朋友了。	Sure. We are friends since primary school.
张	我就给你开一zhang1药方。	I'll just give you a prescription.
重要	这不是一个很zhong4yao4的问题。	This is not an issue of the utmost importance.
难	她觉得很nan2理解他。	She found great difficulties in understanding him.
位	我母亲是一wei4教师。	My mother is a teacher.
向	他xiang4我告别。	He has taken leave of me.
离开	我li2kai1巴黎已经两星期了。	I have been away from Paris for two weeks.
必须	我们bi4xu1重新开始。	We must make a new start.
城市	这个小村庄离cheng2shi4很远。	This hamlet is distant from the town.
而且	鳝鱼很长er2qie3很难抓住。	Eels are long and difficult to catch.
条	两tiao2线相交。	The two lines cut across each other.
过去	他招手叫我走guo4qu4。	He beckoned me to come nearer.
其实	我qi2shi2是个教师，写作只是我的兼职。	Actually I'm a teacher, my writing is just a sideline.
发	蛋糕fa1起来了。	The cake bulked up.
元	他的存款总额达五万yuan2。	His total deposits are50000 yuan.
记得	有个机警的店员准确ji4de5那个男子的穿著.	An observant shop assistant had remembered exactly what the man was wearing.
花	这朵hua1是雄hua1。	This flower is a male flower.
机会	如果有ji1hui4，你应当到那里去。	You should go there if occasion arises.
只有	这份手稿zhi3you3专家才看得懂.	The manuscript requires an expert to understand it.
照片	他给我看了一些空中拍摄的zhao4pian4。	He showed me some aerial photographs.
越	他得到yue4多，想要的也yue4多。	The more he has, the more he wants.
参加	你打算挑选谁can1jia1这个队?	Who are you going to pick for the team?
以前	他问马车夫yi3qian2是否去过那里。	He asked the carter if he had been there before.
总是	丢钱的事zong3shi4压在我心里。	The loss of the money has been a weight on my mind.
双	这个年轻的姑娘长着一shuang1杏眼。	The young girl has a pair of almond eyes.
其他	他们讨论了气候和qi2ta1的话题。	They discussed the weather and other topics.
或者	摄政者，代理人由国家统治者huo4zhe3首脑指派的行政代理人	A person appointed by a ruler or head of state to act as an administrative deputy.
突然	他tu1ran2在冰上摔了个屁股蹲儿。	Suddenly he sat down on the ice.
换	我们huan4个话题吧。	Suppose we change the subject.
选择	xuan3ze2权已不在他们手中了。	The choice is no longer in their disposition.
故事	讲这个gu4shi5的时候配有图片.	The story is told in words and pictures.
努力	警方必须nu3li4恢复治安。	The police must try to restore order.
完成	该国对邻国的征服已经wan2cheng2。	The country's subjection of its neighbor has been finished.
站	学生们手牵手zhan4成一排。	Students stand hand in hand in a row.
决定	他jue2ding4到我们的岛上居住。	He decided to dwell on our island.
画	这张hua4挂歪了.	The picture is hanging askew.
担心	别为我dan1xin1，只管进行下去。	Don't worry about me. Just carry on.
结束	他留着劲在比赛jie2shu4时用。	He saved his strength for the end of the race.
欢迎	这项政策不会受到选民的huan1ying2。	This policy will not appeal to the voters.
久	jiu3旱使青草枯萎。	The long drought scorched the grass.
关系	贫穷不应该与耻辱扯上任何guan1xi4。	There should be no stigma attached to being poor.
马上	有必要ma3shang4派他到那里去。	It is necessary that he be sent there at once.
接	我大约6点半来jie1你。	I'll pick you up about 6:30.
最近	我是zui4jin4才开始学法语的。	I've only recently started learning French.
健康	我盼望她很快会恢复jian4kang1。	I trust (that) she'll recover soon.
半	土豆可先煮至ban4熟再烤.	Potatoes can be parboiled before roasting.
容易	无核的小水果rong2yi4压烂.	Soft fruit squashes easily.
特别	许多学生缺席，te4bie2是连班长也没来。	Many students were absent, notably the monitor.
关于	她写了一本guan1yu2巴黎公社的书。	She wrote a book on the Paris Commune.
段	这duan4路已经封闭.	This section of the road is closed.
比赛	他在昨晚的bi3sai4中独得了48分。	He made 48 baskets in the game last night.
哭	有时这个病人疼得ku1起来。	Sometimes the patient cried for the pain.
音乐	她各种yin1yue4都喜爱，和我一样。	She enjoys all kinds of music, as I do.
愿意	我不知道他是否yuan4yi4来。	I don't know whether he is willing to come.
了解	新来的销售部主任大家还不大liao3jie3。	The new sales director is still a bit of an unknown quantity.
坏	我的电话huai4了。	My phone was out of order.
结婚	你猜怎么着?约翰jie2hun1了。	Guess what? John's got married.
清楚	我说qing1chu5了吗?	Am I making myself clear?
节目	我们现中断正常jie2mu4，播送一条特别新闻。	We now interrupt our normal transmissions to bring you a special news flash.
简单	原始社会的结构并不一定就是jian3dan1的。	The constitution of a primitive society is not necessarily simple.
注意	我没有zhu4yi4到他已经走了。	I failed to note that he had left.
脸	他的lian3因气愤而涨红。	His face reddened with indignation.
办法	再伟大的学者也没有ban4fa3解答这个难题吧。	The greatest scholar cannot solve this difficult problem.
礼物	谢谢你给我们送li3wu4。	Thank you for the present.
小心	她把杯子xiao3xin1地放在架子边。	She carefully positioned the cup on the edge of the shelf.
声音	他一转旋钮，sheng1yin1就变小了。	As he turned the knob, the sound diminished.
包	布已经打成bao1。	The cloth was packed in bales.
忘记	我对“wang4ji4”的记忆力极好。	I have a grand memory for forgetting.
害怕	没有什么可hai4pa4的.	There's nothing to be afraid of.
差	我的记性很cha4。	I have a very poor memory.
饿	割草晾晒的活儿很累, 干一会儿就e4了.	Haymaking is hungry work.
除了	她chu2le5他以外没有好朋友。	She has no close friends other than him.
习惯	他已经xi2guan4在外面吃饭了。	He is used to eating out all the time.
帮忙	她不肯bang1mang2，事情就更难办了。	Her refusal to help complicates matters.
打算	杰克da3suan4勤工俭学读完大学。	Jack planned to work his way through college.
国家	我们guo2jia1的海岸线很长。	We have a long seashore in our country.
刚才	你gang1cai2讲的话彻底离题了。	What you just said is completely off the track.
米	这座山海拔1,400mi3。	This mountain is 1,400 meters above sea level.
遇到	我的汽车yu4dao4事故，但毫无损坏。	My car is none the worse for the accident.
马	那匹ma3踢了我。	That horse kicked me.
解决	许多人都相信监禁jie3jue2不了犯罪问题。	Many people believe that prison isn't a cure for crime.
脚	他气得直跺jiao3.	He stamped (his foot) in anger.
比较	他们现在过着bi3jiao4舒适的生活。	They are now living in relative comfort.
头发	你已把tou2fa5梳到後面.	You've combed your hair back.
要求	yao1qiu2和她定个约会也没有用。	It is no good asking her for a date.
疼	牙被拔掉时，他teng2得大叫。	He bellowed with pain when the tooth was pulled out.
辆	这liang4卡车装载很重。	The truck was heavily loaded.
舒服	私人小汽车能给人很大的shu1fu5和机动性。	A private car gives a much greater degree of comfort and mobility.
经过	这条路在jing1guo4教堂之後向左转弯.	The road turns to the left after the church.
年轻	那位nian2qing1的母亲把孩子抱在怀里。	The young mother held the baby to her bosom.
教	他的叔叔jiao4他法语。	His uncle instructed him in French.
办公室	这间ban4gong1shi4禁止吸烟。	Smoking is forbidden in this office.
新闻	以下是最新的xin1wen2综合报道.	Here is a round-up of the latest news.
影响	一个ying3xiang3到一切社会阶层的问题。	A problem that cuts across all strata of society
奇怪	他时常提出一些qi2guai4的问题。	He raises some strange questions now and again.
楼	电话在底lou2的小书房里。	The telephone was in the little study on the ground floor.
关心	他只顾自己, 不guan1xin1我们.	He's too self-absorbed to care about us.
聪明	他是那么cong1ming2，使我自愧不如。	He's so clever, he makes me feel inferior.
班	那时我们在同一个ban1。	We were both in the same class.
树	雨水从shu4上滴下.	Rain was dripping (down) from the trees.
照顾	我相信她zhao4gu4孤儿是件好事。	I believe it good her taking care of orphans.
同意	董事会原则上tong2yi4这个项目。	The board of directors approved the project in principle.
经常	我jing1chang2带我的孩子们去公园玩。	I often take my children to play in the park.
一般	这些分数远在yi1ban1水平以上[以下].	These marks are well above/below average.
生气	因为和太太sheng1qi4，汤姆踢狗。	Angry with his wife, Tom kicked the dog.
船	chuan2已接近陆地.	The ship was nearing land.
太阳	tai4yang2、月亮和星星都是天体。	The sun, moon and stars are heavenly bodies.
回答	他没有给我hui2da2他问题的机会。	He gave me no chance to reply to his question.
多么	所有捐款，无论数目duo1me5少，我们都深表感谢。	All contribution, however small, will be greatly appreciated.
安静	他该保持an1jing4是有必要的。	It is important that he be quiet.
腿	坐下歇歇tui3儿吧.	Sit down and rest your legs.
认真	你肯定不会指望我ren4zhen1考虑你那些荒谬的建议吧?	Surely you don't expect me to take your potty suggestions seriously?
检查	仔细jian3cha2了废墟後发现了新的证据.	Careful examination of the ruins revealed new evidence.
鸟	我们不知道这些niao3如何找到它们的路。	We have no idea how the birds find their way.
奶奶	邻居张nai3nai5生病时，她去帮忙照料。	She helped out when her neighbour Grandma Zhang became ill.
感冒	她太倒霉了，休假第一天就gan3mao4了。	She was unlucky to catch a cold on the first day of her holiday.
后来	他说他是位医生，但hou4lai2却发现他是个骗子。	He said he was a doctor, but it subsequently emerged that he was an impostor.
难过	听说你的猫死了，我觉得很nan2guo4。	I was sorry to hear that your cat had died.
银行	他向yin2hang2经理提出贷款问题。	He broached the subject of a loan with his bank manager.
蛋糕	那热气腾腾的dan4gao1对这个饥饿的男孩是个诱惑。	The steaming cake was a bait for the hungry boy.
见面	别了！希望很快我们能再jian4mian4。	Farewell! I hope we meet again soon.
短	这条街道比那条duan3四倍。	This street is four times shorter than that one.
一会儿	来访者在中午前yi1hui4r5离开了。	The visitor left a little before noon.
极	他们彼此ji2不和.	They don't get on at all well together/with one another.
历史	这是一本关于古罗马li4shi3的书。	Here is a book about Roman history.
几乎	我们在那儿ji1hu1没看见学生。	We saw few students there.
一边	她个子高, 能看到墙的那yi1bian1.	She can see over the wall because of her height.
变化	群众情绪转眼就能发生bian4hua4.	The mood of the crowd can change in the twinkling of an eye.
附近	不知道这fu4jin4有没有便利商店？	I wonder if there is a convenience store nearby.
同事	我有了新工作和一班新tong2shi4。	I got a new job and a new set of work associations.
公园	我们到gong1yuan2去看日本樱花。	We went to the park to see Japanese cherry blossoms.
动物	dong4wu4能思考吗?	Are animals able to think?
热情	他那re4qing2的样子并没把我们欺骗多久.	His friendly manner did not deceive us for long.
根据	市长要gen1ju4议会的议案来制定政策。	The mayor must make policies in accordance with the bill passed in the Congress.
爷爷	ye2ye5，你装个妖怪！	Be a monster, grandfather!
迟到	这次chi2dao4不是我们的错。	It was not our fault that we were late.
作业	我的英文zuo4ye4中只有两三处错误。	I had no more than 2 or 3 mistakes on my English assignment.
灯	一盏deng1悬挂在桌子上方。	A lamp hang over the table.
聊天	他们坐在凉亭里，边喝茶边liao2tian1。	They sat in the arbor and chatted over tea.
叔叔	有一天我在去我shu1shu5家的路上迷失了方向。	One day I lost myself on the way to my uncle's house.
干净	他用一块沾油的抹布擦gan1jing4汽车。	He cleaned the car with an oily rag.
周末	我喜欢在zhou1mo4做些剧烈运动。	I like to take some energetic exercise at weekend.
环境	有关huan2jing4的会议将在下周一举行。	The convocation about environment will be held on next Monday.
层	大天使高阶ceng2的天使	A high-ranking angel.
文化	中世纪时期的宗教wen2hua4；音乐wen2hua4；口头wen2hua4	Religious culture in the Middle Ages; musical culture; oral culture.
司机	小孩跑进街道时，si1ji1猛然煞车。	The driver stopped short when the children ran into the street.
成绩	他的跳远cheng2ji4盖过了所有的选手。	He excelled all the other contestants in the long jump.
啤酒	他仅有的消遣是喝pi2jiu3和在花园里种花草。	His only recreations are drinking beer and working in the garden.
南	他计划去nan2美。	He purposed to visit South America.
碗	他把食品存放在wan3橱里。	He stored foods in his cupboard.
地铁	我经常乘di4tie3去上班。	I go to work on the tube.
主要	这笔钱zhu3yao4投资于政府公债上。	The money is invested principally in government stock.
瘦	我上个月shou4了好几磅。	I lost several pounds last month.
洗澡	他每次来电话时, 我好像总是正在xi3zao3.	Every time he phones I always seem to be in the bath.
蓝	她有一条用三角形lan2绸子做的围巾。	She has a scarf made of a triangular piece of blue silk.
新鲜	xin1xian1空气和运动有益于健康。	Fresh air and exercise are good for the health.
中间	我在公共汽车上, 一边一个胖子把我夹在zhong1jian1不能动.	I sandwiched myself between two fat men on the bus.
裤子	他们的狗把我的ku4zi5咬了个窟窿。	Their dog bit a hole in my trousers.
方便	有了它真是fang1bian4。	It really comes in handy.
满意	我对会议的结果感到极其man3yi4.	I was most gratified at/by/with the outcome of the meeting.
会议	我真的必须参加这个hui4yi4吗？	Is it necessary for me to attend the meeting?
鼻子	这幅画上你画的猪bi2zi5太长了。	The snout of the pig you drew on the picture is too long.
邻居	他常常为了噪音和lin2ju1们争吵。	He was always fighting with his neighbors about the noise.
客人	她把食物和饮料放在ke4ren2面前。	She set the foods and drink before the guest.
帽子	让我替你拿外衣和mao4zi5吧.	Let me relieve you of your coat and hat.
草	马在cao3地上吃cao3。	The horses are eating grass on the grassland.
放心	有些职员要被解雇，不过请fang4xin1，你不在此列。	Some of our staff are to be dismissed, but I hasten to add you won't be among them.
饱	他的脸上有bao3经苦难的烙印。	His face bears the stamp of suffering.
耳朵	音乐的声音太大了，把我er3duo5震得直响。	The music was so loud it made my ears ring.
提高	她在学习以ti2gao1自己的代数水平。	She was studying to build up her algebra.
练习	咱们一起复习你的英语lian4xi2好吗？	Shall we go over your English exercises together?
经理	我们的jing1li3对我们要求很严格。	Our manager is very strict with us.
水平	这段时间的失业人数又达到了创纪录shui3ping2。	In this period, unemployment reaches record levels.
面包	他在mian4bao1上涂上苹果酱。	He spread some apple jam on the bread.
数学	你必须先弄懂shu4xue2基础知识, 我们才能进一步学习.	You must understand the elements of mathematics before we can proceed further.
节日	全镇沉浸在jie2ri4的气氛之中。	The whole town is in a festive mood.
年级	助学金通常在大学一nian2ji2之后逐渐减少。	Financial aids generally taper off after the first year of college.
饮料	我想要一些没有酒精的yin3liao4。	I would like some temperance drinks.
体育	她总是抱怨伦敦缺少ti3yu4设施.	She's always lamenting the lack of sports facilities in town.
地图	我们在di4tu2上画出我们的路线.	We traced out our route on the map.
裙子	令我惊奇的是, 我侄子穿着女孩的qun2zi5。	To my surprise, I found my nephew dressed in a girl's skirt.
发烧	都在说萨拉的闲话--她耳朵一定fa1shao1了!	All this gossip about Sarah her ears must be burning!
衬衫	你的chen4shan1已经熨好了。	Your shirt is already ironed.
电梯	我坐dian4ti1上了第十八层。	I took the elevator to the eighteenth floor.
冰箱	玛利把许多吃的放在bing1xiang1里了。	Mary put a lot of food in the refrigerator.
打扫	他昨天da3sao3房间吗？	Did he clean the room yesterday?
锻炼	out？ 你经常duan4lian4身体吗？	Do you often work
胖	他太pang4了，以致于弯不下腰。	His fatness renders him unable to bend down.
信用卡	多数美国人有银行签发的xin4yong4ka3。	Most Americans have bank-issued credit cards.
香蕉	我送给玛丽一个苹果换我最喜欢吃的xiang1jiao1。	I gave Mary an apple in exchange for my favorite banana.
图书馆	我要去tu2shu1guan3还这些书。	I'm just going to check in these books at the library.
矮	他没穿鞋，看上去ai3多了。	He seems much shorter without his shoes on.
自行车	我想骑一骑那辆zi4xing2che1。	I want to have a ride of that bike.
中文	这是zhong1wen2－－我一点儿都不懂。	It's in Chinese I can make little of it.
月亮	云彩把yue4liang4遮得看不清楚	Clouds blotting out the moon.
校长	他被任命为那所中学的xiao4zhang3。	He was appointed the rector of the middle school.
熊猫	xiong2mao1是珍贵的动物。	Pandas are precious creatures.
着急	我（那时）很zhao2ji2。－－你用不着zhao2ji2嘛。	I was worried. You needn't have been.
爱好	除工作以外，你有其它的特别ai4hao4吗？	Do you have any special interest other than your job?
复习	考试之前，我们fu4xi2一学期的功课。	Before the examination we have a review of the term's work.
起飞	飞机qi3fei1推迟了（两个小时）.	There was a delay (of two hours) before the plane took off.
街道	他带这个人走过jie1dao4到火车站。	He guided the man through the streets to the railway station.
季节	秋季是我最喜欢的ji4jie2。	Autumn is my favourite season.
一共	你yi1gong4欠我68.03英镑.	You owe me 68.03 altogether.
空调	因为气温很高，有大量kong1tiao2售出。	A large quantity of air-conditioners has been sold since the temperature is high.
北方	有一条良好的A级公路通往bei3fang1--A级1号公路.	There's a good A-road going North -- the A1.
瓶子	ping2zi5的封记已经腐烂.	The seal on the bottle has perished.
不但	他bu4dan4会说英语，而且还会说法语。	He speaks not only English but also French.
刷牙	需shua1ya2以去除牙斑.	It is necessary to remove plaque by brushing one's teeth.
护照	我的hu4zhao4再过两个月就到期了。	My passport is due to expire in two months.
筷子	【谚】一根kuai4zi5易折断，十根kuai4zi5硬如铁。	Weak things united become strong.
盘子	我不太懂得瓷器，估计不出这些pan2zi5的价钱。	I don't know enough about porcelain to be able to price these plates.
有名	想像一下你又有钱, 又you3ming2的情况.	Imagine yourself (to be) rich and famous.
公斤	他体重减了很多, 比以前轻了三gong1jin1.	He's lost a lot of weight: he's three kilos lighter than he used to be.
句子	我不太满意他对这个ju4zi5的翻译。	I'm not satisfied with his interpretation of this sentence.
请假	他刚qing3jia4走了.	He's just gone on leave.
菜单	请把cai4dan1给我。	Please show me the menu.
爬山	他假装在pa2shan1。	He was pretending to climb a mountain.
个子	班ge4zi5太矮了, 拿不到桌子上的书。	Ben is so short that he can not get at that book on the table.
照相机	我想要一只和你一样的zhao4xiang4ji1。	I want the same camera as you have.
伞	糟糕!我把san3丢了。	Damnation! I've lost my umbrella.
黑板	hei1ban3在教室的前面。	The blackboard is in the front of the classroom.
感兴趣	他对模型飞机gan3 xing4qu4之后就全力以赴了。	When he became interested in model airplanes he went the whole hog.
词典	你这本ci2dian3看来有点儿太旧了.	Your copy of the dictionary is looking a bit the worse for wear.
就	你喜欢我jiu4高兴。	I'm glad you enjoyed it.
要	我yao4上厕所.	I need to go to the bathroom.
吧	也许下一次ba5。	Maybe some other time.
也	他ye3学习汉语。	He studies Chinese as well.
还	他的手hai2沾满了鲜血。	His hands were yet red with blood.
知道	你zhi1dao4你在做什么吗？	What do you think you are doing?
到	我没有意识dao4。	I wasn't aware of that.
着	她打zhe5雨伞。	She was holding up an umbrella.
过	日子不好guo4啊。	Pretty tough day to day.
给	把锤子扔gei3我.	Drop the hammer down to me.
对	这dui4我太合适了。	Suits me fine.
让	你真rang4我恶心！	You make me sick!
得	小心de5肺炎。	Take care of getting pneumonia.
真	你可zhen1有胆量.	You must have a lot of courage.
最	我zui4讨厌累活儿!	I'm allergic to hard work!
可以	你怎么ke3yi3这样说？	How can you say that?
次	每星期我去游泳两ci4。	Twice weekly I go swimming.
一下	请你拼yi1xia4你的姓好吗?	Would you please spell your last name?
因为	我yin1wei4严寒没出去看电影。	I did not go to the cinema because of the intense cold.
走	我确实得zou3了。	I really have to be going.
别	bie2七嘴八舌的！	Don't be all talking in confusion.
两	这liang3种说法不相符.	The two statements don't match up.
比	她写作bi3我好得多。	She is far better than me at writing.
一起	我们明天将yi1qi3吃午饭。	We will eat lunch together tomorrow.
快	兔子繁殖得很kuai4.	Rabbits multiply rapidly.
已经	我yi3jing1写了三个小时了。	I've been writing for three hours.
觉得	我jue2de5他好象想要回家。	It seems to me that be would like to go back home.
从	水cong2孔中射出.	Water spewed out of the hole.
开始	他kai1shi3对工作感到厌倦。	He began to weary of the work.
大家	她要养活一da4jia1人.	She has a large family to feed.
告诉	他笑着gao4su4我这个消息。	He told me the news with a laugh.
但是	他观察敏锐, dan4shi4很少说话.	He observes keenly, but says little.
每	我mei3晚洗澡.	I bath every night.
为什么	她知道金属wei4shen2me5是好的导体。	She knows why the metal is the good conductor.
找	这个小男孩跑去zhao3他的哥哥。	The little boy ran off to get his brother.
新	出现了xin1困难.	A new difficulty has arisen.
出	人们涌chu1了车站.	People were streaming out of the station.
时间	下一次邮递shi2jian1是四点钟。	The next postal delivery is at 4 o'clock.
可能	我会尽一切ke3neng2帮助你。	I'll do everything possible to help you.
希望	我xi1wang4演说者不要离题。	I wish the speaker would confine himself to the subject.
快乐	这个kuai4le4的孩子以轻快活泼的步子走着。	The happy boy walked with jaunty steps.
玩	wan2得开心点。	Have fun.
所以	她是悄声说的，suo3yi3我没有听见。	She said it in a whisper, so I didn't hear.
问题	不要忽略枝节wen4ti2。	Don't neglect minor issues.
孩子	他只是一个三岁的hai2zi5。	He is only a child of three.
第一	她把自己的di4yi1本书献给了丈夫。	She dedicated her first book to her husband.
错	不是我的cuo4。	It's not my fault.
事情	我们把一切shi4qing5都交给他处理。	We placed everything at his disposal.
问	wen4wen4他是否能来。	Ask him whether he can come or not.
非常	我fei1chang2喜欢吃冰淇淋。	I am very fond of icecream.
您	我非常感谢nin2。	I'm extremely grateful to you.
件	你有一jian4黑夹克吗？	Do you have a black jacket?
准备	早饭后，我就zhun3bei4去上班。	After breakfast, I'll get ready to go to work.
送	她喜欢随意song4礼物。	She likes to give out presents.
小时	xiao3shi2是时间的一个量度单位。	An hour is a measure of time.
晚上	每天wan3shang5他都埋头读书.	In the evenings he buries himself in his books.
笑	她哄得婴儿一xiao4.	She coaxed a smile from the baby.
路	lu4到这里变窄了.	The road narrows here.
意思	她把她的yi4si5解释得清清楚楚。	She made her meaning crystal clear.
穿	她从不chuan1绿色的衣服。	She never wears green.
咖啡	这瓶ka1fei1净重180克。	The net weight of this jar of coffee is 180 grams.
进	他拐jin4了小巷。	He turned down the lane.
高	草已长得齐腰gao1了.	The grass had grown waist-high.
帮助	我钱很宽裕，能bang1zhu4她。	As I had plenty of money I was able to help her.
公司	gong1si1亏空了五千美元。	The company had a deficit of 5000 dollars.
懂	我dong3一点儿德语。	I know a little German.
累	她做的工作把她lei4得筋疲力尽.	She's knocking herself out with all that work.
生日	sheng1ri5那天，我收到一束红玫瑰。	I received a bunch of red roses on my birthday.
早上	那男孩今天zao3shang5吃了三碗米饭。	The boy ate three bowls of rice this morning.
虽然	我sui1ran2很喜欢她，却不打算娶她。	Much as I like her, I won't marry her.
上班	我近几个月身体不好没shang4ban1.	I've been too sick/ill to go to work for the last few months.
身体	她娇弱的shen1ti3需要小心照料。	Her delicate health needs great care.
正在	他zheng4zai4开会。	He is in conference.
忙	她恳求我帮她这个mang2。	She implored me to do her a favor.
起床	上星期天我十点钟qi3chuang2。	I got up at ten last Sunday.
说话	他喜欢在shuo1hua4中用比喻。	He likes to talk in similitude.
门	men2稍微开了条缝。	The door opened a fraction.
卖	香蕉通常按重量mai4.	Bananas are usually sold by weight.
眼睛	乌鸦啄出了那头死羊的yan3jing5。	The crow pecked out the eyes of the dead sheep.
黑	hei1天鹅很稀有。	A black swan is rare.
远	我们绕yuan3道驾车回家。	We drove home by a roundabout route.
白	你要有格的纸还是bai2纸?	Do you want ruled paper or plain?
票	你能换开五英镑的piao4子吗？	Can you change a five-pound note?
红	我记得她长着hong2头发。	I recollect that she had red hair.
鱼	他不喜欢吃yu2。	He doesn't care for fish.
房间	你的fang2jian1面向哪个方向？	Which direction does your room face?
洗	小猫喝了牛奶，又xi3了脸。	The little cat drank its milk and washed its face.
休息	xiu1xi5一下对你会有好处的。	It'll do you good to have a rest.
妹妹	和我mei4mei5不同，我是一个糟糕的厨师。	Unlike my sister, I am a terrible cook.
姐姐	我有两个jie3jie5. 她们都是医生.	I've got two sisters. They'reboth doctors.
往	她写的字从左wang3右斜.	Her handwriting slants from left to right.
外	镇wai4有个垃圾场。	There is a refuse dump out of the town.
妻子	他的破产和他的qi1zi5很有关系。	His wife had much to do with his bankruptcy.
千	听众至少也有五qian1人。	The audience was not less than five thousand.
雪	xue3深两英尺。	The snow is two feet in depth.
哥哥	汤姆是次子--他有一个ge1ge5.	Tom is the second son he has an elder brother.
丈夫	在我们家里，zhang4fu5和我都挣工资。	In our family both my husband and I are wage earners.
药	这yao4没有效力。	The drug was of no effect.
近	他年jin4四十。	He is near forty.
考试	他kao3shi4前没做任何准备，所以不及格。	He didn't do any preparation for this exam, so he failed.
弟弟	你愿意当你di4di5的保证人吗？	Are you willing to stand surety for your brother?
机场	公众强烈反对修建该ji1chang3。	There was a great outcry about the construction of the new airport.
百	这家医院有二bai3个床位。	This hospital has accommodation for 200 patients.
慢	我的表man4五分钟。	My watch is five minutes slow.
好吃	妈妈准备了hao3chi1的东西给我。	Mother has something delicious in store for me.
去年	qu4nian2的雨量是多少英寸？	How many inches of rain fell last year?
介绍	我通过职业jie4shao4所找到了这份工作。	I got this job through an employment agency.
运动	我们已用白线画出yun4dong4场地.	We have marked the playing area off with a white line.
旁边	他在她的pang2bian1。	He is being side her.
跳舞	她等他邀请她tiao4wu3, 而不愿显得失慎.	She waited for him to invite her to dance, not wishing to seem bold.
唱歌	我喜欢chang4ge1，更不用说听音乐了。	I enjoy singing, much more listening to music.
颜色	这两种yan2se4之间的差别很难区别。	The difference between the two colors is imperceptible.
牛奶	niu2nai3瓶盖是用锡箔制成的。	Milk bottle tops are made of tin foil.
鸡蛋	用五个苹果换五个ji1dan4公平吗?	Is five apples for five eggs a fair exchange?
生病	他一直在sheng1bing4，尚不能工作。	He's been ill and isn't fit for work yet.
便宜	乘长途汽车唯一可取之处就是旅费pian2yi5.	The cheapness of coach travel is its only recommendation.
报纸	早饭后，他读了各种bao4zhi3。	After breakfast he perused the newspapers.
教室	这两间大jiao4shi4已经分配给我们了.	The two large classrooms have been assigned to us.
姓	请问尊xing4大名?	Would you give me your name?
右边	请你往you4bian5移一点好吗？	Would you be good enough to move a bit to the right?
零	达成和平协定的概率是ling2。	The probability of a peace agreement being reached is zero.
游泳	她保持着长距离you2yong3的世界纪录。	She holds the world record for long distance swimming.
火车站	你看到huo3che1zhan4对面的房子了吗？	Have you seen the house opposite the railway station?
左边	她挨著我坐在我的zuo3bian5.	She was sitting immediately to my left.
服务员	她是饭店的女fu2wu4yuan2。	She is a waitress in a restaurant.
手表	我不住地看shou3biao3，他却一个劲儿地讲个没完，他不能领会暗示。	I kept looking at my watch, but he just continued talking: he can't take a hint.
跑步	她不用学pao3bu4技巧, 她天生就擅跑.	She didn't have to learn how to run: she's a natural.
宾馆	汽车在bin1guan3外面[旅馆前面]停了下来。	The car pulled up outside the guesthouse [in front of the hotel].
面条	她在铝锅里下了些mian4tiao2。	She put some noodles in the aluminum saucepan.
铅笔	请把qian1bi3借给我用用好吗？	Would you please lend me your pencil?
的	化石de5记录	A fossil record.
我	wo3害怕蛇。	I have a fear of snakes.
了	他感冒le5。	He caught a cold.
你	ni3疯了吗？	Are you insane?
是	都shi4我的错。	It's all my fault.
不	我bu4太清楚。	I'm not really sure.
在	你zai4说什么?	What are you talking about?
一	让我想yi1想。	Let me see.
有	她很you3头脑。	She has a good brain.
好	很hao3，谢谢。	Fine, thanks.
他	ta1言行一致。	His behaviour conforms to his words.
个	他是一ge4拥护者。	He is an advocate.
我们	wo3men5忠于祖国。	We are loyal to our motherland.
这	我zhe4就上路。	I'm on my way.
人	ren2的本性难移.	You can't change human nature.
会	你hui4习惯的。	You'll get used to it.
都	沟槽里dou1是泥.	The gutter has filled up with mud.
想	xiang3吃梨吗？	Would you like a pear?
吗	你去过故宫ma5？	Have you been to the Imperial Palace?
说	大家别同时shuo1.	Don't all speak at the same time.
很	我hen3喜爱纺纱.	Spinning is one of my hobbies.
和	她he2他订婚了。	She plighted herself to him.
什么	看看你都做了些shen2me5！	Just look at what you've done!
来	我马上就lai2。	I'll be right with you.
能	酸neng2腐蚀金属.	Acids eat into metal.
去	我乐意和你qu4。	I am willing to go with you.
她	ta1穿上袜子。	She draws on her socks.
那	na4可太妙了.	It was quite wonderful.
上	他跳shang4了桌子。	He jumped onto the table.
看	我kan4你不应该。	I don't think you ought to.
做	你zuo4什么工作？	What's your job?
没有	我mei2you3零钱.	I've no small change.
多	duo1难看的脸!	What an ugly mug!
年	他隐藏了一nian2.	He stayed in hiding for a year.
大	他比我da4两岁。	He is my senior by two years.
现在	xian4zai4再见了!	Bye for now!
太	tai4糟糕了。	That's too bad.
呢	你怎么可以这么粗鲁ne5?	How could you be so rude?
怎么	你到底是zen3me5知道的？	How on earth did you know it?
里	从六个li3挑一个.	Choose one out of the six.
爱	猫很ai4清洁.	Cats are cleanly animals.
点	略微超重了dian3。	It's a little overweight.
小	马在路上xiao3跑着。	The horse trotted down the road.
下	他跑xia4楼梯。	He ran down the stairs.
三	他读san1年级。	He is in the third grade.
今天	jin1tian1看上去是个晴天。	Looks like a fine day today.
吃	他很少chi1早餐。	He seldom eats breakfast.
时候	委员会什麽shi2hou5做出裁决?	When will the committee give/make its ruling?
喜欢	你xi3huan5流行音乐吗？	Do you like popular music?
喜欢	我不xi3huan5喝速溶咖啡。	I don't like to drink instant coffee.
家	寓言jia1寓言的创作者	A composer of fables.
听	只剩下一ting1肉了。	There is only one can of meat left.
朋友	他怕在所有peng2you5面前出洋相.	He's afraid of looking foolish in front of all his friends.
谢谢	是的，这事我知道，xie4xie5。	Yes, I know that, thanks.
东西	土太干了，不能种dong1xi5。	The soil is too dry for planting.
叫	那部影片很jiao4座。	That film was a great draw.
钱	你赚了多少qian2？	How much money did you make?
请	qing3把门打开。	Open the door, please.
几	她拍落ji3绺头发.	She patted down a few wisps of hair.
先生	这个老xian1sheng5的财产值多少钱?	What's the old man worth? ie What is the value of his possessions?
买	金钱mai3不来幸福。	Money can't buy happiness.
工作	我有一大堆gong1zuo4要做。	I have a mountain of work to do.
开	他们kai1我的玩笑。	They played a joke on me.
哪	局势真惊人na3!	What a shocking state of affairs!
妈妈	大声叫嚷的孩子听不到ma1ma5的叫唤。	The shouting boy did not hear his mother call him.
住	你zhu4在哪儿？	Where do you live?
喝	你想he1茶吗?	Would you like a cup of tea?
明天	据报道说，ming2tian1有日环食。	It was reported that there would be an annular eclipse tomorrow.
写	他xie3的论文很优秀。	The treatise he wrote is excellent.
爸爸	ba4ba5刚出门, 那男孩就跑向电影院。	As soon as his father went out, the boy ran to the cinema.
五	我有wu3倍于汤姆的书。	I have five times the number of Tom's books.
些	你应该再细心xie1.	You want to be more careful.
岁	她是一位年仅二十sui4的教师。	She is a teacher aged only twenty.
坐	我zuo4在他旁边。	I sat by his side.
怎么样	我看上去zen3me5yang4？	How do I look?
睡觉	我去shui4jiao4，茶沏好后告诉我一声。	I'm going to sleep, tip me the wink when tea's ready.
四	我将等到si4点钟。	I'll wait till four o'clock.
本	这ben3书很有趣。	This book is interesting.
分钟	过10fen1zhong1会有一辆出租汽车到那儿。	A cab will be there in ten minutes.
多少	出国要duo1shao5钱？	How much does it cost to go abroad?
名字	把他的ming2zi5从名单上划去。	Strike his name off the list.
对不起	dui4bu5qi3，我不能来参加晚会了。	Sorry, but I can not join you for the evening party.
漂亮	她长成了一位piao4liang5的女人。	She developed into a beautiful woman.
高兴	再见了，很gao1xing4见到你。	Good-bye. Nice seeing you.
电影	这部新的dian4ying3下个月发行。	The new film will be released next month.
认识	你没有ren4shi5到她这一成就的重大意义。	You haven't realized the magnitude of her achievement.
狗	有人想毒杀我们的gou3。	Someone tried to poison our dog.
中国	Zhong1guo2是一个发展Zhong1guo2家。	China is a developing country.
水	shui3从洞口流出。	Water sluiced out of the hole.
医生	yi1sheng1做手势要我脱去外套。	The doctor gestured me to take off my coat.
老师	lao3shi1要他下课後先别走.	The teacher told him to stay behind after class.
少	我很shao3听见他讲汉语。	I seldom hear he speaks Chinese.
二	六除以er4得三。	Six divided by two is three.
儿子	我的er2zi5每晚都去上补习班。	My son go to cram school every evening.
看见	在院子里我kan4jian4两只猫。	I saw a couple of cats in the yard.
块	这kuai4糕饼好极了.	This cake is heavenly.
昨天	那就是我zuo2tian1见到的那个人。	That is the man I saw yesterday.
冷	这孩子leng3得发抖。	The child shivered from the cold.
哪儿	那调皮孩子na3r5去了? 我看, 他到na3r5也做不出好事来.	Where's that naughty child now? I'm sure he'll be up to no good wherever he is.
衣服	这件yi1fu5是人造纤维的。	This dress is made of artificial fibers.
喂	猪已wei4过了吗?	Have the pigs been fed yet?
下午	今天xia4wu3你读的什么书?	What is the book you are poring over this afternoon?
书	好shu1未必畅销。	A good book does not necessarily sell well.
天气	气象学者画了一张tian1qi4图。	The Meteorologist drew a picture of weather.
再见	多保重。zai4jian4。	Take care. bye!
七	世界上有qi1大洲。	There are seven continents in the world.
学校	xue2xiao4下个月上旬开始放假。	School will close early next month.
猫	mao1捉老鼠是本能。	It is natural for a cat to catch mice.
小姐	旅行社的那位xiao3jie5告诉我下午一点开门.	The lady at the tourist office told me it opened at 1 pm.
打电话	刚才你男朋友给你da3 dian4hua4了。	Your boyfriend called you just now.
电脑	我不明白dian4nao3游戏是怎麽设计的.	How people design computer games is beyond me.
字	请原谅我的zi4写得不好。	Please excuse my bad handwriting.
电视	你知道美国的三大dian4shi4网吗？	Do you know the three USA television networks?
北京	我预定了到Bei3jing1的直达车票。	I booked a ticket through to Peking.
茶	我们沏了一壶好cha2.	We brewed (up) a nice pot of tea.
热	re4咖啡能把糖溶化了.	The hot coffee melts the sugar.
医院	yi1yuan4还有别的方法可以救他吗？	How else can the doctor save him?
六	立方体有liu4个面.	A cube has six surfaces.
同学	他喜欢拿他的tong2xue2开玩笑。	He likes playing jokes on his classmates.
飞机	这架fei1ji1是适于飞行的。	The airplane is airworthy.
读	他从头至尾du2了那书。	He read the book from beginning to end.
学习	他不辞劳苦地xue2xi2英语。	He spares no pains to study English.
学生	老师对他的xue2sheng5非常严格。	The teacher is very strict with his students.
菜	这种cai4好吃不好做.	This dish is delicious but rather a trouble to prepare.
后面	现在他们在完成定额方面不再落在别人hou4mian5了。	Now they no longer fall behind the others in meeting their quotas.
下雨	乌云密布预示着将要xia4yu3。	The black clouds threatened rain.
星期	这xing1qi1他会很忙。	He is very busy this week.
苹果	这些ping2guo3生了很多虫子.	The apples are full of worms.
没关系	如果我赶不上火车，那也mei2 guan1xi5。	It doesn't matter if I miss my train.
中午	我们要在zhong1wu3前後走.	We're leaving round about midday.
九	你肯定你jiu3点能来吗？	Are you sure you can come by at nine?
前面	他挤到了人群的qian2mian5。	He pushed his way to the front of the crowd.
水果	他们奖给优胜者一些shui3guo3和鲜花。	They rewarded the winners with gifts of fruits and flowers.
上午	今天shang4wu3她买了一个烤面包片的电炉。	She buy an electric toaster this morning.
出租车	把我们的零碎东西收拾起来，chu1zu1che1快来了。	Get our bits and pieces together. The taxi is coming.
桌子	婴儿把吃进去的东西吐在zhuo1zi5上了.	The baby spat its food (out) onto the table.
椅子	父亲每晚都坐在同一张yi3zi5上，	Father sits in the same chair every evening.
商店	我在这家shang1dian4里买了一品脱牛奶。	I bought a pint of milk in the store.
饭店	这个fan4dian4的服务质量已经有了很大改善。	The quality of service in this restaurant has improved a lot.
杯子	湿bei1zi5在桌面上留下一个痕迹。	The wet glass left a mark on the surface of the table.
一点儿	我希望这本书的字再大yi1dian3r5。	I wish this book was written in bigger character.
米饭	晚饭时他吃了一些mi3fan4。	He had some rice for supper.
汉语	你我都不会说han4yu3.	You're no more capable of speaking Chinese than I am.
没	他mei2怎么听讲。	He paid scant attention to what was said.
他们	ta1men5挥手告别.	They waved farewell.
天	喔！多累的一tian1！	Oh, what a tiring day!
你们	ni3men5在舞会上玩得高兴吗？	How did you enjoy the ball?
这个	你zhe4ge5叛徒！	You Judas!
中	他怒火zhong1烧.	He was boiling (over) with rage.
但	当时他不必来。（dan4却来了）	He need not have come. (But he came.)
这样	zhe4yang4的是没有不摔跟头的。	Such people are bound to trip and fall.
分享	公社一个比较小、常在乡村的公社，它的成员fen1xiang3公共财产、工作和收入，并常集中自己的财产	A relatively small, often rural community whose members share common interests, work, and income and often own property collectively.
这里	他手上握着刀向zhe4li3跑来。	He came running here with one hand holding a knife.
这么	没有zhe4me5大的地方来放这些书。	There is not so much room for these books.
那么	她恢复得na4me5快，我们都有些惊讶。	We are surprised by the rapidity of her recovery.
将	请jiang1香烟熄灭.	Please extinguish your cigarettes.
后	雨hou4气温下降了。	There was a descent of temperature after rain.
打	他用拳头da3我.	He struck me with his fist.
该	gai1金属已锈蚀.	The metal has corroded (away) because of rust.
帮	你能bang1我把帘幕取下来吗?	Will you help me take the curtains down?
起	夜间qi3风暴了.	A storm arose during the night.
见	老板现在不想jian4她。	She's rather unpopular with the boss at the moment.
前	他用鞭子策马qian2行。	He urged the horses on with a whip.
新年	在xin1nian2这一天下决心是一个依然流行的习俗。	Making resolution on new year's day is a custom that still prevail.
这些	zhe4xie1树生产橡胶。	This tree produces rubber.
看看	我认为你应当去找医生kan4kan5病.	I think you ought to go to/to go and see (ie consult) the doctor.
是的	你想瞧瞧这画吗？－－shi4de5！很想！	Would you like to have a look at the picture? --- Yes, I should very much like to.
回家	场雷雨一直捱到我们hui2jia1以后才开始下。	The thunderstorm dept off until we were safely indoors.
那个	na4ge5掸子很脏。	That duster is very dirty.
可	ke3触摸的肿瘤	A palpable tumor.
那些	她穿na4xie1衣服也并没显得更漂亮。	Those clothes do nothing to enhance her appearance.
出来	你要chu1lai2散散步吗?	Are you coming out for a walk?
获取	虚报你的健康状况以huo4qu3廉价的保险是不对的。	It is not right to lie about your health to get cheap insurance.
回来	我衷心希望他不会hui2lai5。	It's my devout hope that he will not come back.
还有	如果失败，我hai2 you3另一个机会。	I shall have another chance in the event of failure.
已	yi3达成和解.	An amicable settlement was reached.
噢	｀这门是这样开的.＇｀o1, 我明白了.＇	`The door opens like this.' `Oh, I see.'
电话	他在开会，没空来接dian4hua4。	He is in conference and cannot come to the telephone.
并	政府bing4未向舆论让步.	The government has not yielded to public opinion.
一点	他的头发带yi1dian3姜黄色.	His hair was a bright shade of ginger.
不错	他法语还bu4cuo4, 但应该再好些.	His knowledge of French is fair, but ought to be better.
全	quan2校在大礼堂集合.	The whole school (was) assembled in the main hall.
找到	他们编了一个zhao3dao4宝石的故事.	They pitched a yarn about finding the jewels.
男人	那个nan2ren2曾是个好色之徒。	That man used to be a lascivious person.
木	这个箱子是胡桃mu4做的。	This box is made of walnut.
今晚	会议可能要延长到夜里，因为jin1wan3有太多问题要解决。	The meeting may be prolonged into the evening because so many problems have to be solved tonight.
名	一ming2现场采访记者	An on-the-scene reporter.
图片	杂志一种载有专论、小说、tu2pian4或其他内容的期刊	A periodical containing a collection of articles, stories, pictures, or other features.
美	他计划去南mei3。	He purposed to visit South America.
早	今年树木发芽zao3.	The trees are budding early this year.
就是	你不是支持我jiu4shi4反对我。	You are either with me or against me.
只是	你zhi3shi4说说而已。	You are just saying that.
这儿	对不起，您的汇款还没有到我们zhe4r5。	Sorry, your remittance have not reach us yet.
一些	窗口摆了yi1xie1书。	There was an arrangement of books in the window.
成	窗户碎cheng2碎片。	The window broke into pieces.
自	第二学期zi4三月开始。	The second term commences in March.
总	迟到zong3比不到好。	Better late than never.
祝	zhu4您新年快乐！	A happy new year to you!
好好	医生对我说，我需要hao3hao1休息。	The doctor told me I was in need of a good rest.
得到	逆命题通过换位de2dao4的命题	A proposition obtained by conversion.
头	汽车在外tou2。	The car is outside.
刚刚	他gang1gang1四十岁时，头发就变得灰白了。	His hair became gray when he was only forty.
过来	车朝我开guo4lai2时约翰叫道:""小心!""	Look out!"" Jone called as the car came towards me.
活	猫在戏弄那只huo2老鼠。	The cat is playing with a live mouse.
那样	na4yang4调换他的工作等于是解雇了他。	Changing his job like that is equivalent to giving him the sack.
以后	步行了四个小时yi3hou4，我们开始累了。	After walking for four hours we were beginning to flag.
不要	bu4yao4嘲笑他。	Don't laugh at him.
出去	小偷乘没人注意时溜了chu1qu4.	The thief slid out (of the door) while no one was looking.
之前	我希望星期五zhi1qian2天气会好转。	I hope the weather will improve before Friday.
变	她有处bian4不惊的本事.	She has the ability to keep calm in an emergency.
今年	jin1nian2夏季农作物成熟得早.	The summer crops were forward this year.
那里	我站在na4li5，害怕得直发抖。	I stood there quaking with fear.
句	那ju4话突然启发了她。	That sentence suddenly illumined her.
哪里	你从na3li5学会说英语的呢？	Where did you learn to speak English?
勋章	他因勇敢而赢得一枚xun1zhang1。	He got a medal for his gallantry.
有些	我you3xie1恶心.	I feel sort of queasy.
下来	坐过去点，让你外婆坐xia4lai2。	Move over and let your grandmother sit down.
好看	那种新的发式的确使她hao3kan4一些[hao3kan4多了].	That new hairstyle really does something/a lot for her.
之后	在短暂的休息zhi1hou4他们继续锻炼。	They carried on the exercise after a short break.
身边	那小男孩在父母shen1bian1感到安心。	The little boy felt secure near his parents.
关注	希望你对此给予guan1zhu4。	I hope you will pay attention to this problem.
此	ci3合同无效.	This contract is null and void.
有点	错过这么好的一次机会他you3dian3后悔。	He repented in a measure of missing such a good chance.
美国	夏威夷群岛已不再是Mei3guo2的属地.	The Hawaiian Islands are no longer a dependency of the USA.
晚	难怪你来wan3了!	No wonder you were late!
等等	我们买了一些书籍、衣服deng3deng3。	We bought some books, clothes, etc.
房子	这些fang2zi5是免付捐税的。	These houses are exempt from paying rates.
上帝	对不信shang4di4的人引用圣经的话是没用的。	It's no use citing the Bible to somebody who doesn't believe in God.
或	严肃huo4庄严的举止	Solemnity or dignity of manner.
跑	撑竿跳需要长距离助pao3.	Pole vaulters need long run-ups.
无法	警方wu2fa3确定当时他在哪里.	The police can't establish where he was at the time.
于	大蕉类似yu2香蕉。	A plantain is similar to a banana.
同	很荣幸tong2您见面。	I'm honored to meet you.
发起	我们藏在灌木丛后，准备向来犯者fa1qi3突然袭击。	We hid behind the bushes, ready to pounce on the intruder.
春节	我们都沉浸在chun1jie2的欢乐之中。	We all immersed in the gaiety of the Spring Festival.
受	他们shou4的惩罚太轻。	The punishment inflicted on them was too mild.
怕	我pa4我是着凉了。	I'm afraid I've caught a chill.
酒	我善于品尝好jiu3。	I have a good palate for fine wine.
如此	真奇怪，她竟然会ru2ci3粗暴无礼。	It's strange for her to be so rude.
怎样	我不知道该zen3yang4来感谢你才好。	I don't know how I can possibly thank you enough.
另	他们会再做ling4一次的尝试吗？	Will they make any attempt?
如	洁白ru2雪""是明喻。	As white as snow"" is a simile.
里面	在…之内在或进入li3mian4；在内部	In or into the inner part; inside.
见到	我希望明年某一时候再jian4dao4你。	I hope to see you again sometime next year.
歌	他的ge1充满了忧伤。	His songs are full of dirge.
这种	我们不能赞同zhe4zhong3事.	We can't approve of this sort of thing/these sorts of things/things of this sort.
杯	再给你倒bei1茶好吗？	Can I pour you another cup of tea?
加油	我们在给学院的棒球队jia1you2.	We're rooting for the college baseball team.
今日	jin1ri4股票交投活跃, 价格看涨.	Share prices were buoyant today in active trading.
边	池塘bian1有许多花。	There are many flowers on the brink of the pond.
各位	今晚大家似乎喝酒喝得太多了，当然在座的ge4wei4除外。	People seem to have drunk far too much tonight, present company excepted of course.
来说	贞节对一个女人lai2 shuo1是重要的。	Chastity is important to a woman.
下去	他跳xia4qu4的时候扭伤了足踝。	He gave a wrench to his ankle when he jumped down.
忘	别wang4了锁门。	Don't omit locking the door.
天下	他称霸tian1xia4。	His power sways the world.
未	注意，油漆wei4干!	Mind the wet paint!
真是	哦，你zhen1shi5太好了!	Oh, you're just wonderful!
抽	我时而喜欢chou1一支大雪茄烟。	I like to smoke a big cigar every now and then.
回去	她踩着他受伤的脚，他疼得缩了hui2qu4。	He winced as she stood on his injured foot.
昨晚	zuo2wan3他们被强盗洗劫一空。	Last night, they were cleaned out by robbers.
眼	她泪yan3模糊.	Her eyes clouded with tears.
部	他的肺bu4不健康.	His lungs were unsound.
想到	你可曾xiang3dao4被你最好的朋友出卖？	Did it ever occur to you to be betrayed by your best friend?
床	孩子睡了，她掂着脚走到chuang2前。	She tiptoed across to the bed where the child was lying asleep.
看来	在我kan4lai2，你跟他都没有达到标准。	In my opinion, neither you nor he has met the standard.
愿	yuan4上帝保佑你！	God bless you!
人们	ren2men5有权通过这些田地吗？	Is there a right of way across these fields?
真心	哎呀，不要这样死要面子啦，告诉我zhen1xin1话吧！	Oh, don't be so respectable! Tell me what you really feel.
变成	秋天树叶由绿色bian4cheng2黄褐色。	In autumn the leaves change from green to brown.
听到	我们ting1dao4外面有脚步声.	We heard steps outside.
打开	他da3kai1了门，招手让我进去。	He opened the door and motioned me to come in.
声	有轻轻的敲门sheng1。	There is a light rap at the door.
选	他们xuan3他做主席。	They elected him chairman.
跳	他惊慌地tiao4了起来.	He jumped up in alarm.
加	在总数上再jia19.	Add 9 to the total.
彩色	cai3se4插图书的整页图解，经常为cai3se4，印刷在与印刷正文页材料不同的纸张上	A full-page book illustration, often in color and printed on paper different from that used on the text pages.
越来越	我等她回来时，心里yue4lai2yue4不安。	I waited with growing uneasiness for her to return.
回到	她的祈祷应验了，儿子平安地hui2dao4了家。	Her prayer answered and her son came home safely.
外面	你隔多久就在wai4mian5吃一次饭？	How often do you eat out?
父母	他的fu4-mu3并不像他的老师对他那样有影响。	It is not his parents that influence him so much as his teachers.
定	那匹马赢ding4了。	That horse is a certainty.
学	xue2英文是值得的。	It is worth while to learn English.
疯	你feng1了吗?	Are you mad?
那儿	na4r5有很多喂牛的饲料。	There is much forage for the cattle.
加入	音响效果经预录後已jia1ru4对话中.	The sound effects had been pre-recorded and were added to the dialogue.
处	钥匙都在接待chu4呢.	The keys are with reception.
不同	英美两国的政府体制有什么bu4tong2？	What are the difference between the American and British systems of government?
曾	我ceng2认为这可能是真的。	I thought it might be true.
进入	她说她再也不愿jin4ru4那所房子了。	She said she would never set foot in that house again.
没什么	这mei2 shen2me5要紧，不要为它烦心了。	It's not important; don't bother your head about it.
其	圆的轴线是qi2直径.	The axis of a circle is its diameter.
收到	他shou1dao4一个扎得很紧的包裹。	He received a compact package.
有人	我们需要you3ren2来修理录音机。	We needed someone to fix the tape recorder.
之间	吸烟与肺部疾病zhi1jian1有关系吗？	Is there a link between smoking and lung disease?
能够	这个小男孩neng2gou4数到一千。	The little boy can count up to a thousand.
球	qiu2从桌上滚下来。	Off the table rolled the ball.
面	湖mian4相当平静。	The surface of the lake is quite still.
感到	她gan3dao4一阵头晕目眩.	A fit of dizziness came over her.
大学	去年他进了da4xue2研读近代史。	He came up last year to read Modern History.
在一起	我可不喜欢整天和他zai4 yi1qi3。	I'm not too enamored with the idea of spending a whole day with him.
吃饭	chi1fan4的时候我坐在他的对面。	I sat opposite to him during the meal.
美好	我母亲和我一起向你表示mei3hao3的祝愿.	Mother joins (with) me in sending you our best wishes.
逼	房东正在bi1她搬家.	The landlord's putting the screws on to get her out of the house.
谈谈	如果让他tan2tan5艺术，他就茫然不知了。	If you get him talking on art, he soon gets out of his depth.
听说	我ting1shuo1你又要结婚了，你这个老家伙。	I hear you're getting married again, you old son of a gun.
不能	他的答案bu4neng2令人满意。	His answer is unsatisfactory.
身上	石头像雹子一样落在他们shen1shang5.	Stones hailed down on them.
查	我好久没有见到cha2理了。	I haven't seen Charlie for a dog's age.
放假	我们原来盼望著下星期fang4jia4--看样子走不了了.	We were hoping to have a holiday next week as it is, we may not be able to get away.
测试	矿石碾磨实验通过碾磨来鉴定矿石的矿砂品质或含量的ce4shi4	A test of the mineral quality or content of an ore by milling.
进去	狗守卫着房屋，不让陌生人jin4qu4。	The dog guarded the house against strangers.
痛	如此tong4切而清晰！	Burst agonized and clear!
雨	比赛因yu3延期。	The game was put off because of rain.
肉	他皮笑rou4不笑地和我打了招呼.	He greeted me with a greasy smile.
家人	她希望与jia1ren2团聚。	She hopes reuniting with her family.
想起	见到老战友使我回xiang3qi3自己在部队中的日子。	The sight of the old comrade-in-arms carried me back to my days in the army.
进来	月光（通过窗户）照了jin4lai2.	The moon is shining (through the window).
至	黑夜转瞬而zhi4.	Night was fast approaching.
鬼	他吓得直哆嗦，就好像看见了gui3一样。	He was shaking with fright as if he had seen a ghost.
带来	战争dai4lai2的必然结果就是生产力下降。	The necessary outcome of a war is a fall in production.
该死	你这个gai1si3的大笨蛋!	You frigging idiot!
因	我们yin1害怕而屏住呼吸。	We held our breath in fear.
怪	你瞧那戴guai4帽子的家伙!	Get a load of that old bloke with the funny hat!
想要	你xiang3yao4些番茄汁吗？	Would you like some tomato juice?
乐园	一个舒适的家可以是一个le4yuan2。	A comfortable house may be an Eden.
线	首先，画一条水平xian4。	First, draw a horizontal line.
气	啤酒走了qi4了。	The beer is stale.
怎么办	瞧，我这是怎么搞的！它本是辆新车。我zen3me5 ban4好呢？	Just look what I have done! It was a new car. Whatever am I going to do?
牛	那儿有很多喂niu2的饲料。	There is much forage for the cattle.
必	违法者bi4受惩罚.	You cannot break the law with impunity.
阿	在自己的影片里短暂露面是a1尔弗雷德·希区柯克的特点。	Appearing briefly in his own films was a trademark of Alfred Hitchcock.
神	指引方向的shen2	A guiding spirit.
上面	由shang4mian5所说的，我们可以做一个结论。	From what is said above, we can draw a conclusion.
多久	他本来能买那辆车的，但没duo1 jiu3他的公司就倒闭了。	He could have bought the car, but soon his company went bankrupt.
留下	玛丽liu2xia4几块布准备做一床被子。	Mary saved up pieces of cloth to make a quilt.
饭	那顿fan4简直好极了。	That meal was simply divine!
夜间	汽车的挡风玻璃在ye4jian1结了霜.	The car windscreen frosted over during the night.
学会	她给xue2hui4作了一次有关哲学的讲话.	She delivered a talk on philosophy to the society.
山	她把shan1羊毛纺成毛线.	She spins goat's hair into wool/spins wool from goat's hair.
一半	我把巧克力掰成两半--这yi1ban4给你.	I broke the chocolate into halves here's your half.
若	ruo4不用网把豌豆罩上，鸟就要来吃了。	If you don't net your peas the birds will eat them.
街	那条jie1经常交通阻塞。	There is always traffic congestion in that street.
男孩	学习外语女孩总是比nan2hai2强.	In learning foreign languages, the girls knock spots off the boys every time.
那边	你看见na4bian1的一丛树林了吗?	Do you see yonder clump of trees (ie that clump of trees over there)?
小孩	她像一个渴望玩具的xiao3hai2。	She is like a child lusting for toys.
好多	hao3duo1男人之（所以有）惊人的自制力，是由于他有老婆这一事实之故。	Many a man's wonderful self- control is due to the fact that he has a wife.
病	她bing4後仍很虚弱.	She was still weak after her illness.
长官	君主，领主根据封建法律，应对之效忠和服役的zhang3guan1或君主	A lord or sovereign to whom allegiance and service are due according to feudal law.
错过	今天早晨我起床晚了，cuo4guo4了公共汽车。	I got up late this morning and missed the bus.
作	有炸鸡肉zuo4晚餐。	There was fried chicken for dinner.
想法	他摇摇头，因为他的xiang3fa5与此不同。	He shook his head, for he thought differently.
射	太阳光直she4在我们脸上。	The sun was shining in our faces.
常	这是chang2有的事。	These things happen all the time.
出门	如果明天天气好，我门可能chu1men2。	If it is fine tomorrow, we may go out.
小小	更改xiao3xiao3的改变，调正或限制	A small alteration, adjustment, or limitation.
别的	这就是兴趣与技能是有区bie2de5。	The point is there is a difference between an interest and a skill.
烧	shao1鱼之前先去掉鱼鳞。	Scale the fish before cooking them.
飞	石块朝四面八方乱fei1。	Stones were flying about in every direction.
做到	那种工作不可能zuo4dao4十全十美.	Perfection is impossible to achieve in that kind of work.
案子	我得把你送进监狱直到你的an4zi5进行审理，除非你可以找个人保释你。	I shall have to put you in prison until your case can be heard, unless you can find anyone to go bail for you.
按	订费an4季度交付.	Subscriptions should be paid quarterly.
长大	他zhang3da4了，穿剩下的衣服就给了他的弟弟。	As he grew up he passed on his clothes to his younger brother.
大吉	我预祝大家岁首da4ji2。	I wish everybody good luck at the beginning of the year.
好久	我对他很生气，因为他让我等了hao3jiu3。	I was angry with him for keeping me waiting.
记住	ji4zhu4你告诉我的话并不容易。	It is not easy to keep in mind what you have told me.
替	星期五能不能请你ti4我个班？	Can you cover for me on Friday?
慢慢	你欠我的债可以man4man4还。	You can take your time to pay the debt you owe me.
美元	这些衬衫的批发价是45mei3yuan2。	The wholesale prices of these shirts are 45 dollars.
风	寒feng1掠过平原.	Cold winds swept the plains.
来到	他们邀请我们将lai2dao4那里时去他们家做客.	We have a standing invitation to visit them when we're in the area.
内心	他颤抖的双手显示出他nei4xin1的恐惧。	His shaking hands showed his inward fear.
醒来	我xing3lai2时已是白天.	When I woke up, it was already day.
有时候	父亲you3shi2hou5带着手杖出去散步。	My father sometimes goes out for a stroll with a stick in his hand.
羊	一yang2跟一yang2（指盲从）。	One sheep follows another.
下面	过了一会儿，我们在一些白杨树xia4mian5找到了一个遮阴的地方。	After a while, we find a shady place under some poplar trees.
恩	各位女士、先生，现在我为你们介绍一位舞台和银幕上著名的明星，约翰·韦en1。	Ladies and gentlemen, now I will introduce to you the renowned star of the stage and screen, John Wayne.
看上去	他kan4 shang4qu5完全是正人君子.	He looked every inch a gentleman.
家里	他们宁愿去钓鱼，也不愿待在jia1li3。	They would rather go fishing than stay at home.
极了	我真是累ji2le5，简直可以睡上一整天。	I'm so tired I could sleep for a whole day.
放下	暖和的天气诱使我fang4xia4了学习。	The warm weather seduced me away from my studies.
玩笑	我上了当, 还以为他们的wan2xiao4是真的呢.	I was hoaxed into believing their story.
兴趣	他对你给他的东西没流露出一丝xing4qu4。	He showed no glimmer of interest in what you had offered.
日本	他被任命为驻Ri4ben3的总领事。	He was appointed the general consul of Japan.
小子	这懒xiao3zi5一整天一点事都没干。	The lazy boy has not done a stroke of work all day.
藏	他把一张红桃J cang2在口袋里。	He hid a knave of hearts in his pocket.
再次	我从来没有想过会zai4ci4见到你。	I never dreamed that I should see you again.
的话	她de5hua4减轻了我的痛苦。	Her words mitigated my suffering.
主角	影片的女zhu3jue2是一位老妇人。	The heroine of the film is an aged woman.
卡	有根鱼骨头ka3在我的喉咙里。	I've got a fish bone stuck in my throat.
面前	他在敌人mian4qian2胆小如鼠，真是可鄙。	His cowardice in face of the enemy was contemptible.
犯	他们已fan4了叛国罪。	They have committed treason against the state.
城	这座cheng2的现代外观	The modern face of the city.
事实上	我以为他会变好。但shi4shi2shang5，他愈变愈糟。	I thought he would get better. As it is, he is getting worse.
抓住	狮子zhua1zhu4猎物，把它吃了。	The lion seized its prey and ate it.
原文	我无法引用确切的yuan2wen2, 但是我可以告诉你作者所述的要点.	I can't quote chapter and verse but I can give you the main points the author was making.
就算	儿子，别担心，作不出来jiu4suan4了。告诉你老师，别忘了诗人是天生的，不是教出来的。	Stop worrying if you can't do it, son, and tell your teacher to remember that poets are born, not made.
有时	药物you3shi2具有令人不快的副作用。	Medicines sometimes have unpleasant side effects.
有关	这些都是与社会福利you3guan1的问题。	These are matters that bear on the welfare of the community.
不行	作曲者把这个曲子随便哼了一会儿，看看行bu4xing2。	The composer kicked the music around for a while, trying it out.
爱上	王子ai4shang5了一位美丽的年轻少女。	The prince fall in love with a fair young maiden.
杰克	爆竹响了，吓了jie2 ke4的狗一跳。	The firecracker went off and scared Jack's dog.
剩下	轰炸之後, 只sheng4xia4几所房子没倒塌.	After the bombing only a few houses were left standing.
点儿	一丁dian3r5声音就足以把他吵醒.	The merest noise is enough to wake him.
服务	被旅馆fu2wu4人员洗烫得很整洁的衬衣	Shirts that were neatly laundered by the hotel staff.
入	迟到者不得ru4内.	Late-comers will not be allowed in.
通	可变tong1的日程表	A flexible schedule.
早餐	伙食费方式是每人20美元，吃五顿zao3can1和四顿晚餐。	The meal plan be20 dollars each for five breakfast and four supper.
酒店	附近没有jiu3dian4, 至少据我所知没有.	There's no pub round here, leastways not that I know of.
纽约	这是我们一直在期待的（从Niu3yue1来的）邮包.	This is the parcel which we have been expecting (from New York).
绝	我们jue2少外出.	We go out very seldom.
并不	通过这条很滑的路bing4bu4容易。	Negotiation of the slippery road was not easy.
同样	使我惊讶的是，他又犯了tong2yang4的错误。	To my dismay, he made the same mistakes.
最终	有人说资本主义和社会主义zui4zhong1会合而为一。	Some say that capitalism and socialism will eventually converge.
火车	huo3che1上挤得我都喘不过气来。	There was such a crush on the train that I could hardly breathe.
好玩	现代战争并不是hao3wan2的事。	There is not much comedy in modern war.
付出	我们为这一项目fu4chu1了大量的时间和精力.	We've put a great deal of time and effort into this project.
金币	很多黄金饰物回炉後铸成了jin1bi4.	Many of the gold ornaments were melted down to be made into coins.
性	德语中有三xing4。	German has three genders.
戏	这个月我们看了好几场xi4。	We've been to several plays this month.
更加	暴风雨使燃料的缺乏状况geng4jia1恶化。	Heavy storms worsened the fuel shortage.
赢得	他的讲话ying2de2了听众的掌声。	His speech won the applause of the audience.
自我	自治的与其他国家或政府的法律相独立的；zi4wo3管理的	Independent of the laws of another state or government; self-governing.
一路	那狗yi1lu4跟在我身旁边喘边跑.	The dog panted along (the road) beside me.
佳	步兵防守甚jia1.	The infantry is/are defending well.
成名	她的第一部小说一问世，便使她一举cheng2ming2。	She won her overnight fame by her first novel.
人民	我们正前方就是ren2min2广场。	Directly ahead of us is the Peoples Square.
鞋	他去掉xie2上的泥。	He removed the mud from his shoes.
注定	那项令人赞赏的发现zhu4ding4由他完成。	It was reserved for him to make the admirable discovery.
黑色	他的hei1se4皮沙发看上去很昂贵。	His black leather couch looks expensive.
直到	她父亲抚养她zhi2dao4她结婚。	Her father supported her until she got married.
眼泪	世界上最有效的水力是－女人的yan3lei4。	The most effective water power in the world-women's tears.
介意	你jie4yi4我明天请假吗？	Are you mind if I take tomorrow off?
不好意思	我bu4 hao3yi4si5告诉她我不及格。	I was too ashamed to tell her that I had failed.
实际上	她看上去信心十足，shi2ji4shang4很缺乏信心。	Beneath her self-confident surface, she's quite unsure of herself.
这边	zhe4bian1请，夫人。	This way please, madam.
付	今天我请客。我来fu4。	It's my treat today. I'll pay.
主	多好的zhu3意！	What a swell idea!
歌曲	唱流行ge1qu3的歌星什麽时候都是新闻人物.	Pop stars are always news.
共	发言gong4占去三小时.	The speeches occupied three hours.
那时	na4shi2一场大瘟疫正在该城肆虐。	A great plague was then raging in the city.
算是	我suan4shi4放了暑假了, 但却未能真正休息.	I had a kind of/sort of holiday in the summer but I couldn't really relax.
聊	很遗憾要打扰你一下，我想问问我们什么时候能liao2liao2。	I'm sorry to trouble you, but I wondered if we could have a word some time.
毁	赌博把他hui3了.	Gambling was his destruction.
窗	chuang1外的树木挡住了阳光。	The trees outside the window blocked off the sun.
冬天	寒冷的dong1tian1，我们不得不穿毛织品。	We have to wear woolen clothes in the cold winter.
干什么	半夜三更的，你起来gan4 shen2me5？	Why are you getting up in the middle of the night?
投	他对她tou2以锐利的眼光。	He shot her a sharp glance.
瓶	ping2上标明有毒。	The bottle is labeled poison.
准	用这把尺子能量得zhun3吗?	Can you measure accurately with this ruler?
案	这些事实和此an4有关。	These facts are relevant to the case.
不好	怎麽了? 你脸色bu4 hao3.	Is anything wrong? You look ill.
美人	mei3ren2斑（妇女面部天生的或人为的、曾被视为一种美的痣或斑）。	Mole or artificial spot on a woman's face, once thought to add to her beauty.
开枪	在打斗中为了自卫把人打死是一回事，残酷无情地kai1qiang1杀人是另一回事。	It's one thing to kill a man in a fight, in self-defence, another to shoot him in cold blood.
一举	这个女演员的第一部电影使她yi1ju3成名。	The actress won overnight fame with her first film.
懂得	她认为自己dong3de5什么是生活。	She esteemed that she knew what life was.
汽车	公司把qi4che1当做抵押品。	The company took the cars as hostage.
拯救	他们祈求上帝把他们从危险中zheng3jiu4出来。	They prayed to God to deliver them from danger.
名单	把你们的名字写在ming2dan1上。	Stick down your names on the list.
那天	na4 tian1天气很好，我原本不必带伞的（但却带了）。	It was fine that day, so I need not have brought an umbrella with me.
地主	当地di4zhu3常常虐待农民。	The local lords often treated the peasants badly.
足够	为了赚到zu2gou4的钱, 他工作到深夜。	In order to earn enough money, he worked late into the night.
所谓	她那些suo3wei4的朋友对她的影响很坏.	Those so-called friends of hers are a bad influence on her.
之一	伦敦是世界上最大的城市zhi1yi1。	London is among the greatest cities of the world.
垃圾	很多东西使水污染，例如轮胎、la1ji1和塑胶袋。	Many things pollute water, such as tires, trash, and plastic bags.
大人	在我们整个旅行中，我们没有看到一个da4ren5打孩子。	In all our travelling, we never saw an adult strike a child.
为何	你一定要急急忙忙走吗？wei4he2不留下喝杯茶呢？	Must you dash off? Why not stay for a cup of tea?
早晨	zao3chen2的新鲜空气使他觉得愉快。	The fresh air in the morning made him feel glad.
假期	孩子们不断吵架，破坏了我们的jia4qi1。	The children kept quarreling and spoiled our holiday.
广州	去年，Guang3zhou1遭到六十年未遇的严重旱灾。	Last year Canton was visited by the worst drought in60 years.
乔	这件衬衫是用qiao2其纱做成的。	The shirt is made of georgette.
皮	墙pi2已开始剥落了.	The walls have begun to peel.
要么	迪克yao4me5刻苦学习，yao4me5根本不学，从不走中间路线。	Dick either studies very hard or not at all, never anything in between.
开车	在禁止酒後kai1che1这一行动中要对司机突击检查.	The campaign against drinking and driving will include spot checks on motorists.
不少	他们断言这个女孩子读了bu4shao3书。	They affirmed that the girl did quite a bit of reading.
贴	我涂了大量胶水，可那张海报就是tie1不住。	The poster wouldn't stick even though I drenched it with glue.
早起	他有zao3qi5的习惯。	He is in the habit of rising early.
不再	因受到严重损坏，这座桥bu4zai4使用了。	Seriously damaged, the bridge is no longer in use.
封	这feng1信只用一张纸写成。	The letter was written on a single sheet of paper.
开门	Rex很快就成了一个kai1men2能手了。	Rex soon became an expert at opening the gate.
归	你要是赌赢这车就gui1你了。	If you win the bet, the car is yours for love.
爬	我们pa2到山顶时, 看到了优美的景色.	When we finally topped the hill we had a fine view.
有意思	试用照相机斜著照, 照出来的相片更you3 yi4si5.	Try angling the camera for a more interesting picture.
不用	我这里一切都好，bu4yong4挂念。	Everything is fine with me; there is no need for you to be concerned.
排	山脚下有几pai2帐篷。	There are rows of tents at the foot of the mountain.
病人	手术成功了，bing4ren2现在已脱离危险。	The operation is a success and now the patient is out of danger.
脑子	我这是信口开河，随便谈谈nao3zi5里想的东西。	I'm talking offhand, simply speaking my mind.
谋杀	警方声称这男子是被mou2sha1的，但未提出任何证据。	The police alleged that the man was murdered but they have given no proof.
狼	lang2总是成群猎食.	Wolves hunt in packs.
半夜	到ban4ye4时分他已喝了近两瓶酒。	By midnight he had put back nearly two bottles of wine.
男朋友	她在给nan2peng2you5购买礼品.	She's buying a present for her boy-friend.
屋	小棚wu1在房子的一边.	The shed is to the side of the house.
每天	他下决心mei3tian1要读一小时有益读物。	He made a resolution to read something profitable for one hour every day.
浪	在微lang4的美妙颤抖中缓缓合目。	On the smooth wave in trembling beauty sleep.
外套	我可以把它裁得低一点，这样让您穿着这件wai4tao4显得更丰满一点。	I can cut it lower and in that way give you a little more fullness in the blouse.
晚餐	出去吃wan3can1如何？	How about going out for dinner?
需	这一交易xu1经政府批准.	The deal needs the government's seal of approval.
般	春天ban1的或具春天特色的	Characteristic of or resembling spring.
圣诞	sheng4dan4礼物都用薄纸裹起来了.	The Christmas presents were wrapped (up) in tissue paper.
有的	他是世界上最富you3de5人。	He is the richest man in the world.
那种	她向老板说明了自己na4zhong3表现的原因。	She explained her conduct to her boss.
遭	窃贼zao1警方用计擒获.	The thieves were caught in a police trap.
随	sui2即紧sui2这之后	Immediately after this.
法官	她傲慢无礼, 大大地触怒了fa3guan1.	Her insolence greatly displeased the judge.
肯	他由於死要面子而不ken3接受帮助.	He refused to accept help out of a false sense of pride.
配	有咖喱的菜pei4米饭最妙.	Rice makes an excellent complement to a curry dish.
英语	澳大利亚是一个讲Ying1yu3的国家。	Australia is an English speaking nation.
听见	观众静得连别针落地的声音也能ting1jian4.	The audience was so quiet you could have heard a pin drop.
杀人	他在短短的一生中, 从小偷小摸到sha1ren2, 什麽罪都犯过.	In his short life he had run the entire gamut of crime, from petty theft to murder.
快点	加紧干吧！如果不kuai4dian3，我们永远也完不成的。	Shake a let there! We'll never finish if you don't hurry up.
英国	在Ying1guo2，车辆必须靠左行驶。	In England traffic must keep to the left.
天使	在图画中的tian1shi3通常是身穿白衣, 生有翅膀.	Angels are usually shown in pictures dressed in white, with wings.
考	我认为我kao3得不错.	I think I did OK in the exam.
仍	沙漠中reng2有丛林。	There is still underbrush in the desert.
闹	还有一个跟他nao4革新的工人，那就是唐英。	One of the workers who followed in his steps as an innovator was Tang Ying.
犯罪	很多人都说fan4zui4与贫穷是密切相关的.	Many would say that crime and poverty interrelate/are interrelated (with one another).
停止	这机器一触即可ting2zhi3或开动.	The machine stops and starts at a touch.
奖品	获胜者得到了jiang3pin3.	The winner was presented with a trophy.
男生	我的朋友都是nan2sheng1，他们一点也不关心读书。	My friends were all boys who cared nothing about studying.
紧	这条裤子我穿太jin3了。	This pair of trousers is too tight for me.
丝	这些蚕的吐si1量很大.	The silkworms are producing well.
泡	把床单好好pao4一pao4.	Give the sheets a good soak.
市民	本市的shi4min2举行了盛大的晚会庆祝他们的胜利。	People in the city held a great party to celebrate their victory.
下班	他xia4ban1回家了吗？	Is he home from work?
普通	骨粉和硝酸盐是pu3tong1的肥料。	Bone-meal and nitrates are common fertilizers.
上去	引座小姐带领我沿著通道到我的座位shang4qu5.	The girl ushered me along the aisle to my seat.
香港	根据条约, 中国将于1997年7月1日收回Xiang1gang3。	According to the treaty, China is to take back Hong Kong on July 1st, 1997.
强大	它具有操作灵活简便、功能qiang2da4、多任务、多线程、以及即插即用等特性。	It is well established for its flexible operations, powerful functions, multitasking, multithreading and plug and play.
剪	他的头发已jian3短了。	His hair has been cut short.
悲伤	她的儿子死去时，她bei1shang1得几乎疯了。	She was almost mad with grief when her son died.
遇见	我绝没想到会在这里yu4jian4你。	This is the last place where I expected to meet you.
具	政府中较ju4影响力的圈子	The inner circles of government.
样	他的算术不怎麽yang4.	He's not good at numbers.
古	这种建筑风格起源于gu3希腊。	The style of architecture originated from the ancient Greeks.
心里	我等著她回来, xin1li5越来越不安.	I waited with growing unease for her return.
送给	急需将食物和衣服song4gei3灾民。	It is urgent that food and clothing (should) be sent to the sufferers.
遇	金属yu4热则膨胀。	Metals expand when they are heated.
叫做	你把这东西jiao4zuo4啤酒吗?	Do you call this stuff beer?
炸	我个人还是赞成zha4香肠。	I personally vote for fried sausage.
最新	他们的厨房尽是zui4xin1式的器具.	Their kitchen is full of the latest gadgets.
一生	她的yi1sheng1被疾病所摧残。	Her life was blighted by ill health.
舞台	wu3tai2灯光暗了下去, 这出戏的第一幕结束了.	The stage lights (were) dimmed, and the play's first act was over.
自杀	那小说作者在书的结尾让他的女主人公zi4sha1了.	The novelist makes his heroine commit suicide at the end of the book.
路上	她一见lu4shang5有个小孩, 便猛踩刹车.	As soon as she saw the child in the road, she jammed on her brakes.
到来	我们可以相信他会准时dao4lai2。	We can depend on his arriving here on time.
波	发射以光线或bo1的形式发出和传播能量	Emission and propagation of energy in the form of rays or waves.
脑	他在nao3中权衡着这些想法。	He weighed the ideas in his mind.
罪	我认为无知是一种zui4。	I guess ignorance must be a sin.
惹	那件事re3出了一连串的灾祸.	The incident sparked off a whole chain of disasters.
纸	能给我一张zhi3吗？	Would you please give me a piece of paper?
悬崖	他设法抓住xuan2ya2表面向外伸出的岩石.	He managed to hang on to a piece of rock protruding from the cliff face.
建造	jian4zao4这座建筑物花了好几个月时间。	The erection of the building took several months.
明年	总经理扼要介绍了公司ming2nian2的销售计划。	The general manager gave us an overview of the company's marketing plans for the coming year.
祈祷	他们为早日结束苦难而qi2dao3.	They prayed (to God) for an end to their sufferings/for their sufferings to end.
哪个	请问我该先买na3ge5品种。	Please advise me which item I should buy.
心愿	孩子们喜欢搅拌做蛋糕的混合料，同时许一个xin1yuan4。	The children liked to stir the cake mixture about, making a wish.
杀死	他被他的同伙sha1si3。	He was done away with by his partner.
架	我们遇到四jia4敌机.	We encountered four enemy aircraft.
人人	蒜别放太多--不是ren2ren2都喜欢的.	Don't overdo the garlic in the food not everyone likes it.
中国人	Zhong1guo2ren2用筷子吃饭。	The Chinese eat with chopsticks.
冰	bing1象石头一样坚硬。	The ice is as hard as rock.
书写	请在纸的正反两面shu1xie3, 但不要写在四周的边上.	Please write on both sides of the paper, and don't write in the margin.
姐妹	在你们jie3mei4中，我最心疼你。	Of all your sisters, I love you best.
无关	条件作用某一对象逐步将渴望的行为和先前wu2guan1的刺激因素联系起来的行为改变过程	A process of behavior modification by which a subject comes to associate a desired behavior with a previously unrelated stimulus.
法国	Fa3guo2大革命是欧洲历史上的火山爆发。	The French Revolution was a volcanic upheaval in European history.
晚饭	她午饭吃得很少，期待wan3fan4时饱餐一顿。	She ate a light lunch in expectation of a good dinner.
落	水泥袋砰的一声luo4在地上.	The sack of cement hit the ground with a thump.
某些	恐怖分子只有在mou3xie1条件下才释放人质.	The terrorists will only release their hostages on certain conditions.
盘	桌上有个水果pan2。	There is a fruit bowl on the table.
红色	我有一件hong2se4的华达呢上衣。	I have a red gabardine coat.
修	我得xiu1xiu1表，它不走了。	I'll have my watch repaired; it doesn't work.
保佑	愿上帝bao3you4你！	God bless you!
世上	这shi4shang5有些人把整个时间花费于搜寻正义，却腾不出时间来付诸实践。	Some folks in this world spend their whole time hunting after righteousness and can not find any time to practice it.
熊	北极星第二星的光度中的一颗星，位于小xiong2星座把柄的末端，几乎位于北天极	A star of the second magnitude, at the end of the handle of the Little Dipper and almost at the north celestial pole.
夏天	直到现在还没有像样的xia4tian1.	We've not had any summer to speak of.
青年	那qing1nian2通过每天给那女子送花而向她求爱。	The young man courted the young lady by bring her flowers every day.
做出	我在zuo4chu1决定之前不得不再三考虑此事。	I have to turn the matter over and over before make a decision.
运	他们用卡车yun4煤。	They use a lorry to carry coals.
塞	水汨汨地从sai1孔中流下去.	The water gurgled as it ran down the plug-hole.
笨蛋	ben4dan4被看作软弱、傻或愚蠢的人	A person regarded as weak, foolish, or stupid.
流	眼泪顺着她的脸liu2下。	Down her face ran the tears.
夜晚	这是一个黑暗无月的ye4wan3。	It's a dark and moonless night.
不幸	他向每一个愿意听的人抱怨他的bu4xing4。	He moaned about his misfortunes to anyone who would listen.
精美	这些jing1mei3的绘画使四壁生辉。	Fine paintings graced the walls of the room.
坐下	让我zuo4xia5歇一会儿，我刚得到一些坏消息。	May I sit down a minute? I've just had some bad news.
笑容	一丝xiao4rong2使她脸上平添了生气.	A smile animated her face.
孤单	他当初刚到伦敦时很gu1dan1.	He was very lonely at first when he moved to London.
牌	从一副pai2中任意选出一张	Chose a card at random from the deck.
撒	在米饭上sa1点盐.	Sprinkle a little salt on the rice.
引力	他讲述了牛顿的yin3li4定律，给人以深刻的印象。	He discoursed impressively on Newton's theory of gravity.
疯子	那个feng1zi5开车开得太快了.	That maniac drives far too fast.
家族	那个jia1zu2拥有一座气派的大厦。	The family owns a lordly mansion.
踢	马对他们凶猛地乱ti1。	The horse kicked out at them fiercely.
蠢	chun3话，chun3事愚chun3的言语或笨拙的行为	A foolish or stupid utterance or deed.
表	你记得biao3上的读数吗？	Do you remember the reading on the meter?
春天	在chun1tian1里听鸟儿歌唱是一种乐趣。	It's a pleasure to hear birds' warble in spring.
晚会	生日wan3hui4之后, 房间里一片混乱。	The room was in confusion after the birthday party.
碰到	尽管他peng4dao4一些困难，但他对自己的成功依然满怀信心。	Although he met with some difficulties, he was none the less sure of his success.
其它	她比qi2ta1人到得早。	She arrive earlier than the others.
反	你把帽子戴fan3了。	You have put your hat on backwards.
喝酒	我不he1 jiu3, 给我来杯汽水吧.	I won't have any wine; I'll just have (a) soda water.
变得	他妻子的去世使他的生活bian4 de5空虚。	His wife's death left him a vacuum in his life.
台湾	玉山要比Tai2wan1的任何山都高。	Mt. Jade is higher than any other mountain in Taiwan.
烤	你自己拿一只kao3栗子吧。	Grab yourself a roast chestnut.
今后	希望jin1hou4两国人民之间有更多的交往。	We hope from now on there will be more exchanges between our two peoples.
加上	这部电影是先拍摄画面的, 音乐是後jia1shang4的.	The film was made first and the music was added as an afterthought.
拖	我们不得不把汽车tuo1到最近的修车厂。	We have to tow that car to the nearest garage.
难以	我们nan2yi3继续支付分期偿还的抵押贷款.	We're having difficulty keeping up our mortgage payments.
此刻	目前我不能出让那所房子, ci3ke4房价正在急剧上涨.	I'd hold on to that house for the time being; house prices are rising sharply at the moment.
仅仅	jin3jin3经过几天的训练，她的打字技术就达到极其出色的程度。	After only a few day's instruction, she got typing off to a fine art.
就要	要想召集会议什么的，jiu4yao4出个通知。	If you want to call a meeting or anything, put up a notice.
之中	哪一条河流是它们zhi1zhong1最短的？	Which river is the shortest among them?
上学	他没吃早饭就去shang4xue2了。	He went to school without breakfast. (=He went to school and did not eat breakfast.)
白色	那店员穿著bai2se4长罩衣.	The shop assistant was wearing a white overall.
预测	要yu4ce4出谁将获胜是不可能的.	It is impossible to predict who will win.
或是	现在吃huo4shi4等一会儿再吃对我来说都一样.	It's all one to me whether we eat now or later.
外婆	你心地真好，在我出差期间照顾我年迈的wai4po2。	It's very noble of you to look after my old grandmother when I was out for business.
现	xian4正在招募空军。	Now, men are enlisting for the air force.
巴黎	他从Ba1li2给我寄来几张明信片。	He sent me some postal cards from Paris.
报	我要bao4一宗盗窃案。	I want to report a theft.
爆	烟火砰的一声bao4开了.	The firework exploded with a loud bang.
壁纸	bi4zhi3正在剥落.	The wallpaper is peeling (off).
悲剧	作者似乎拿不定主意是写喜剧还是写bei1ju4, 致使这个剧非驴非马.	The author seems uncertain whether he is writing a comedy or a tragedy, so the play falls between two stools.
扫	我们的机枪sao3倒了向前推进的一排排敌人的步兵。	Our machine-guns moved down the advancing lines of enemy infantrymen.
不到	我在人群中寻找她，但看bu4dao4。	I looked for her in the crowd but couldn't see her.
好几	他访问过许多国家，并学会了hao3ji3种外语。	He's visited many foreign countries and has learnt several foreign languages.
灭	他们看见了灯塔发出一闪一mie4的光。	They saw the intermittent flashes from a lighthouse.
纯	她血管里流的是chun2吉普赛人的血液。	She has pure gypsy blood in her veins.
大街	我那时正沿著da4jie1向北去, 走著走著....	I was proceeding along the High Street in a northerly direction when...
意大利	他搭乘便车往南去Yi4da4li4，然后从那里进入法国。	He hitched south towards Italy, and thence into France.
缺	他一再que1课使人担忧.	His repeated absence (from school) is worrying.
睡着	别惊动他，他shui4zhao2了。	Don't disturb him----he has flaked out.
安	轮子an1正了吗?	Is the wheel true?
部落	那个印第安人是临近bu4luo4的成员。	That Indian man is a member of the neighbouring tribe.
爱人	女朋友最喜欢的女性同伴或ai4ren5	A favored female companion or sweetheart.
压	温和的说服胜於ya1服.	Gentle persuasion is more effective than force.
炸弹	空中爆炸zha4dan4或炮弹的空中爆炸	Explosion of a bomb or shell in the atmosphere.
上课	因为流行性感冒全校停止shang4ke4。	The school was closed because of the flu.
蓝色	这些锅上有lan2se4的搪瓷。	The pots are made with blue enamel.
只不过	这不是原作，它zhi3 bu4guo4是廉价的复制品。	This is not the original; it's only a cheap reproduction.
白天	我们不能在bai2tian1看到星星。	We can't see stars in the daytime.
挤	他从人群中ji3过去。	He forced his way through the crowd.
偷偷	他tou1tou1溜进了电影院而没有被人逮着。	He stole into the cinema without being caught.
他人	将财产转让ta1ren2，通常指土地的转让。	The transfer of property usually land to someone else.
东方	在集市上，我闻到了dong1fang1的气息。	In the market, I breathed the smells of the Orient.
赌	我们就下次的选举打个du3吧。	Let's make a bet on the next election.
只能	无论如何我们也zhi3neng2听其自然。	Be that as it may, I'll leave it as it is.
冒	沼泽地里mao4出了瘴气.	A miasma rose from the marsh.
埋	那柱子牢牢地mai2在地里.	The post is fast in the ground.
男友	他对女儿的新nan2you3极为反感。	He took a scunner at his daughter's new boyfriend.
之类	热天穿棉布zhi1lei4有渗透性的材料制成的衣服最为适宜。	In hot weather cloths made of a porous material like cotton are best.
拍摄	他新pai1she4的电影确实受到评论家严厉的批评。	His new film was really panned by the critics.
当年	她最近的一部小说在出版dang1nian2就印行了三次.	Her last novel ran into three reprints in its first year of publication.
泪	她lei4眼模糊.	Her eyes clouded with tears.
说谎	许多妇女常在自己的年龄上shuo1huang3话。	Many women lie about their age.
情人	她在一阵悔恨之中把qing2ren2的信都烧了.	In a fit of remorse she burnt all her lover's letters.
罗	米开朗琪luo2在大理石上雕刻.	Michelangelo carved in marble.
午餐	哎，快到wu3can1休息时间了，他为什么非给我这个急件不可！	Oh, why do he have to give me this rush job now that it's almost time for my lunch break!
等到	deng3dao4我得知这项决定时，已经太迟了。	I wasn't informed of the decision until too late.
影响力	他用尽一切ying3xiang3li4使他们接受他的计划。	He exerted all his influence to make them accept his plan.
有效	我们根据you3xiao4法律保护投资者的利益。	We protect the interests of investors by the legislation in effect.
熟	我们让太阳晒shu2了.	We are baking in the sun.
伸出	他shen1chu1手去，保护他的孩子免受伤害。	He raised his arm to protect his child from hurt.
美味	猎人拿出了非常mei3wei4的鹿肉招待我们。	The hunter entertained us with venison which was very delicious.
大战	英国在第一次世界da4zhan4中是美国的同盟国。	Britain was an ally of America in the World War I.
星球	地球只是宇宙中众多xing1qiu2中的一个。	The Earth is only one of the numerous planets in the universe.
证人	正式确认向有权威的zheng4ren5正式确认以保证法律上的有效性	A formal declaration made to authoritative witnesses to ensure legal validity.
铁	tie3容易生锈。	Iron is apt to rust.
摔	那位老太太从一段楼梯上shuai1了下来。	The old woman fell down a flight of stairs.
以上	60岁yi3shang4的人的锻炼时间减低到每日十分钟.	The period of exercise was geared down to ten minutes a day for men over 60.
镇	学校就位于zhen4子的外面。	The school is situated just outside the town.
此时	ci3shi2，他们两人，男人和他的妻子都赤身露体，但他们彼此相对，并不难为情。	Now they were both naked, the man and his wife, but they had no feeling of shame towards one another.
正是	这位不是别人，zheng4shi4我的老朋友约翰。	This is no other than my old friend, John.
三十	我们班上有san1shi2位学生，只有一位通过考试，其余都不及格。	We have 30 students in our class; one passed the exam, and the others (=the rest) all failed.
教堂	这座小jiao4tang2於1880年举行献堂礼.	The chapel was dedicated in 1880.
客气	她需要使请求语气柔婉，以便尽可能把它变成有礼貌与ke4qi5。	She needed to soften her request to make it as polite and courteous as she could.
鞋子	你能告诉我这些xie2zi5的零售价吗？	Could you tell me the retail prices of these shoes?
无限	wu2xian4的耐心使她成为这个医院最好的护士。	Her endless patience made her the best nurse in the hospital.
公路	这座发电站的燃料是通过gong1lu4运送的.	The power station is serviced (ie Fuel is delivered to it) by road transport.
睡眠	某些证据表明“快速眼动shui4mian2”可能是大脑长期适应生活经验形成的。	Some evidence suggests that Rapid Eye Movement Sleep may be a time when the brain adapts to life experiences.
餐	他是流浪汉，惯於风can1雨卧。	He's a tramp and used to living rough.
领	他已ling3驾驶执照了。	He has taken out a driving license.
黄	金莺长着黑huang2的羽毛。	An oriole is a bird which has black and yellow feathers.
分开	他把男读者和女读者硬是人为地区fen1kai1来.	He drew a quite artificial distinction between men and women readers.
独自	她并不因du2zi4一人而稍有不悦.	She wasn't any (the) less happy for being on her own.
警方	jing3fang1汽艇招呼我们停下来。	The police launch hailed to us to come to.
接到	我经常jie1dao4我们部队战友们的来信。	I often hear from my comrades-in-arms in the army.
挖	小孩们在沙堆里wa1了一个地道。	The kid dug a tunnel in the sand.
加速	对银行偿付能力出现恐慌更jia1su4了经济的崩溃。	Fears about the solvency of the banks precipitated the great economic crash.
编	我bian1了一个花环。	I wove a garland of flowers.
大脑	他在事故中da4nao3受伤无法治愈.	He suffered irreversible brain damage in the crash.
还好	hai2 hao3我们没有跟着他。	It is just as well that we did not follow him.
望	他表情严肃地wang4着她。	He looked at her with a solemn expression.
乐队	yue4dui4的每个成员都必须跟着拍子演奏。	Every member of the band must follow the beat.
援助	饥荒十分严重，yuan2zhu4也只是杯水车薪。	The famine is so bad, aid can only scratch the surface.
不必	我庆幸自己bu4bi4在天气这样恶劣的夜晚外出.	I'm glad I don't have to go out on such a dirty night.
不在乎	她bu4 zai4hu5你是否喜欢她。	She does not care whether you like her or not.
签名	我有许多著名足球运动员的亲笔qian1ming2.	I've got lots of famous footballers' autographs.
法庭	此案已由上诉fa3ting2转给下级fa3ting2处理.	The case has been remitted from the appeal court to a lesser tribunal.
背后	有人从bei4hou4向我猛然一击，我重重地倒了下去。	Someone hit me from behind and I fell like a ton of bricks.
饼	我们的狗喜欢用嘴接bing3乾.	Our dog likes catching biscuits in its mouth.
拼	比尔，请pin1这个字。	Please spell the word, Bill.
一一	点名时，孩子们听到自己的名子yi1 yi1答应。	At the roll-call the children answered up to their names.
死去	作者把她的主人翁安排在第七章中si3qu4。	The author kills off her hero in Chapter7.
欧	这盘Ou1防风做的菜味道很怪。	This dish of parsnip tastes strange.
联邦	美国外交政策取决于lian2bang1政府，lian2bang1法律由国会制定。	In the USA foreign policy is decided by the federal government and federal laws are made by Congress.
再说	你为什么不先把问题放在一边过会儿zai4shuo1?	Why don't you lay that problem aside for a while and work at it later?
读书	你必须在一个安定的地方du2shu1。	You need to study in a quiet place.
评委	ping2wei3会即将宣布优胜者.	The jury is/are about to announce the winners.
技能	戏剧团的执行导演；经营管理的经验和ji4neng2	The executive director of a drama troupe; executive experience and skills.
尿	血红蛋白niao4niao4液中出现血红蛋白	The presence of hemoglobin in the urine.
不许	他虽被命令bu4xu3去，但还是去了。	He went, notwithstanding he was ordered to stay.
受害者	检查者对所有shou4hai4zhe3的朋友进行了调查。	The checker made a check on all the victims' friends.
歌手	那年轻的女高音ge1shou3受到一著名指挥家的提携.	The young soprano was taken up by a famous conductor.
万事如意	我希望他在新的工作中wan4shi4-ru2yi4.	I wish him well in his new job.
退出	换码，转义，tui4chu1，逸出，中断执行尤指用来中断一条指令、停止程序运行或者在同一个程序中改变层次	A key used especially to interrupt a command, exit a program, or change levels within a program.
交给	有人把来客订旅馆房间的麻烦事jiao1gei3我干。	Someone has landed onto me the job of fixing hotel rooms for the visitors.
午饭	走读生凡拟在校用午餐者希于10时前通知总务管理员，今天你在家吃wu3fan4还是出去吃饭？	Non-resident students who wish to lunch in should inform the Bursar before ten o'clock.
市区	如在shi4qu1电车或公车上找给顾客的零钱	The fare charged a passenger, as on a streetcar or bus.
靠近	kao4jin4太平洋的地区，风景很美丽。	The scenery is beautiful near the Pacific Ocean.
门口	哨兵查问在men2kou3的陌生人.	The sentry challenged the stranger at the gates.
拍照	我从侧面给他pai1zhao4。	I photographed him in profile.
大哥	他和他的da4ge1一样聪明。	He is no less clever than his elder brother.
拿走	一个小贼在黑暗的街上拦住玛丽，把她的钱包na2zou3了。	A thief stopped Mary on a dark street and made off with her wallet.
练	她上大学时经常lian4跑步.	She used to run when she was at college.
为止	他朝著树枝（不停地）砍, 直到砍下wei2zhi3.	He hacked (away) at the branch until it fell off.
夫妻	并非每一对fu1-qi1都相称。	Every couple is not pair.
有所	到国外旅行允许携带的款额you3suo3限制。	There are currency restrictions on the sums allowed for foreign travel.
地上	在这块不毛之di4shang5什么也不能生长。	Nothing can grow in this barren land.
存储	计算机是一种快速、精确的符号加工系统，它能接收、cun2chu3、处理数据并产生输出结果。	A computer is a fast and accurate symbol processing system. It can accept, store, process data and produce output results.
谈话	我在tan2hua4中当然会十分小心的。	I'll certainly be most discreet in my conversation.
黑人	大多数非洲人是hei1ren2。	Most African people are black people.
较	淡季旅游机票jiao4便宜。	Air fare is cheaper in the off- season.
下次	那位大使预期他xia4ci4派驻巴黎.	The ambassador expects that his next posting will be (to) Paris.
不够	我们的木材供应证明是bu4gou4的。	Our wood supply proved insufficient.
情感	爱、喜、恨、惧、悲都是qing2gan3。	Love, joy, hate, fear and grief are all emotions.
常常	孩子们chang2chang2（为玩具）争吵.	The children are always bickering (with each other) (over their toys).
帐	zhang4款共计30英镑.	The bill came to 30.
闪耀	灯光在黑暗中shan3yao4。	Lights flared up in the darkness.
星星	你在夜晚可以看到xing1xing5，白天却看不到。	You can see stars by night, but not by day.
骗子	那个狡猾的人纯粹是个pian4zi5。	This crafty man is nothing but a crook.
具有	整个计划开始ju4you3更切合实际的性质。	The whole scheme began to take on a more practical aspect.
男子	他是个感情细腻的nan2zi3。	He is a man of subtle and refined sensibility.
何时	你的驾驶执照he2shi2到期?	When does your driving licence expire?
圣诞节	Sheng4dan4jie2是个快乐的日子，尤其是对孩子们。	Christmas is a time of mirth, especially for children.
二十	闭幕式将于三月er4shi2五日举行。	The closing ceremony is going to be held on March 25th.
讲话	她讨厌他到不和他jiang3hua4的程度。	She hates him to the point of not talking to him.
惨遭	昨天有两名游客can3zao1杀害。	Two visitors were brutally slain yesterday.
萝卜	我买了一大捆luo2bo5。	I bought a large bunch of radishes.
德国	De2guo2西面与法国接壤, 南与瑞士为邻.	Germany is bounded on the west by France and on the south by Switzerland.
食品	他把一盒shi2pin3从汽车上拿进来。	He brought the box of groceries in from the car.
行走	我设法悄悄地xing2zou3，俾使他们听不见。	I tried to walk quietly, so that they would not hear me.
大部分	da4bu4fen5有学问的人都很谦虚。	Most learned men are modest.
从未	我以前cong2wei4听到过这个词语，是最近新造的吗？	I hadn't heard that expression before ; is it a recent coinage?
牙	有些蛇长有毒ya2。	Some snakes have poisonous fangs.
好听	我说几句hao3ting1的, 也许能说服他去做这工作.	With a little flattery I might persuade him to do the job.
玫瑰	你看新栽的mei2gui4长根了吗？	Do you think the new rosebush has taken root?
提出	我建议，就ti2chu1的协议拟定一个草案。	I suggest that a draft be made of the proposed agreement.
行李	搬运工会把你的xing2li5搬到你的房间去的。	The porter will carry your luggage to your room.
股	烟从烟囱里一gu3一gu3地喷出来.	Smoke puffed from the chimney.
村	我想进cun1林子里去凉快一下	I'm going into the wood to cool off.
小学	经过五年的艰苦工作，他们完成了一套高质量的教材。该书分为六级，从xiao3xue24年级到初中3年级。	After five years of hard work they presented a high quality textbook, which consisted of six levels from grade4 to grade9.
桌	zhuo1上有个水果盘。	There is a fruit bowl on the table.
河	村庄在he2对岸。	The village lies across the river.
暖	最近供nuan3设备已稍加改动以提高效率.	The heating system has recently been modified to make it more efficient.
伦敦	过去Lun2dun1的交通常因烟雾而受阻.	Smog used to bring London traffic to a standstill.
钱包	他放在后裤兜中的qian2bao1被偷了。	His wallet is stolen from his back pocket.
少年	上诉法院宣布shao4nian2法院发出的照看命令无效。	The appeal court quash the care order make by the juvenile court.
某种	他的建议遭到mou3zhong3程度的反对。	His suggestion met with some hostility.
胜	【谚】慢而稳，赛必sheng4。	Slow and steady wins the race.
扯	他che3我的耳朵.	He pulled my ears/me by the ears.
湖	我把你划到hu2对岸去吧.	Let me row you over to the other side of the lake.
前进	船处于顶风位置的风以阻碍船只qian2jin4的方式推动	In such a way that the wind pushes against the forward side of a sail or sails.
刮	有gua1台风的征兆。	There was a threat of typhoon.
伤口	护士在他的shang1kou3上敷了一块干净的纱布垫。	The nurse put a clean pad of cotton over his wound.
迟	今天早晨我醒得很chi2。	I awoke late this morning.
取得	这些年来，他qu3de2了丰富的经验。	He has gained rich experience in these years.
梦见	昨夜我meng4jian4我在飞翔.	I dreamt about flying last night.
旁	站在他pang2的是一位劳动模范。	Standing by him was a model worker.
稳	她站得不太wen3.	She's not very steady on her pins.
而是	困扰我的不是他的工作，er2shi4他的态度。	It's not his work that bothers me; it's his attitude.
大多数	这个地区da4duo1shu4国家的经济都不稳定。	Most of the countries in the region have unstable economies.
干活	他不得不忍住悲痛，继续照常在车间gan4huo2。	He was obliged to swallow his grief and work in the shop as usual.
购买	顾客赊帐簿商人登记顾客gou4mai3的商品的本子	A book in which a merchant records credit sales.
之外	我们除了同意他们zhi1wai4，没有别的选择。	We have no other choice than to agree with them.
舞会	我想请你下星期日去参加wu3hui4好吗？	I would like to invite you to a ball next Sunday.
谎言	huang3yan2再多也掩盖不了事实真相。	No amount of lies can cover up reality.
约翰	我喜欢yue1 han4，他是我非常要好的朋友。	I like John, a very good friend of mine.
权	宪法授予总统宣战quan2。	The constitution vests the president with the power to declare war.
分子	那些不忠fen1zi3脱党另组了一个新党.	Disaffected members have left to form a new party.
暖暖	保母抱著个孩子进来, 孩子身上裹著Nuan3nuan3的毯子.	The nurse carried in a baby wrapped (up) in a warm blanket.
死者	在si3zhe3胃中找到了少量的毒药。	Small quantities of poison were detected in the dead man's stomach.
好事	帮助盲人过马路是做hao4shi4.	It is an act of kindness/a kind act to help a blind man across the street.
大衣	那件da4yi1看来是绝对旧得穿不出去了.	That overcoat is looking decidedly past it.
含	你吃的han2淀粉的食物太多了。	You eat too much starch.
血液	我感到浑身xue4ye4在沸腾。	I could feel blood pulsing through my veins.
队长	今天这队的dui4zhang3是谁?	Who is captaining the side today?
一早	第二天yi1zao3小船就沿河向下游驶去了。	The boat dropped down the river early the next morning.
停车	ting2che1後不关前灯, 电池的电很快就会耗尽.	If you leave your headlights on you'll soon run down the battery.
英里	我们开出约五十ying1li3汽车就抛锚了.	We had gone about fifty miles when the car broke down.
年轻人	如今有些nian2qing1ren2穿的服装真会把你吓一跳。	The clothes some young people wear nowadays really make your hair curl.
详情	议员坚持要充分了解政府计画的xiang2qing2.	Members of Parliament insisted on being put in the picture about the government's plans.
部队	bu4dui4包围了这城市好几个月。	The army has laid siege to the city several months.
街头	一天的这段时间有数以百万计的职工从工厂和办公场所涌向jie1tou2.	The shops and offices pour millions of workers into the street at this time of day.
大大	助学金削减後, 学生人数da4da4减少.	Student numbers have been decimated by cuts in grants.
做事	如果你匆匆忙忙地zuo4shi4，那你就要出差错。	You make mistakes if you do things in a hurry.
额	保险公司已经清偿了她的索赔款e2.	The insurance company has settled her claim.
隐藏	海关查出了yin3cang2在货物中的海洛因.	The Customs have found heroin hidden in freight.
陌生人	当mo4sheng1ren2走近时，狗叫了起来。	The dog barked when the stranger came near.
主持人	班上计划义卖糖果，推选凯特为zhu3chi2ren2。	The class planned a candy sale and they elected Kate to head it up.
虽	她sui1疲劳但仍继续工作。	She kept on working although she was tired.
稍	医生说肝脏shao1有些毛病。	The doctor says it's just a touch of liver.
国内	他有了新创作的剧本, 巩固了他在guo2nei4的杰出剧作家的地位.	With his new play he has consolidated his position as the country's leading dramatist.
实验室	海底（shi2yan4shi4）工作人，深水操作人员训练能在水下装置物中生活并引导、辅助或作为科学研究的对象	A person trained to live in underwater installations and conduct, assist in, or be a subject of scientific research.
顺	我们shun4著草坡滑下去.	We slid down the grassy slope.
起诉	由于她发表了关于公司安全记录的言论，该公司正以诽谤罪qi3su4她。	Her company is suing her for slander because of her remarks about their safety record.
有空	你们you3kong4房间吗？	Do you have a room available?
拳	当心我给你眼睛一quan2！	I'll smash you in the eye!
新人	她是办公室的xin1ren2, 她有什麽需要就多帮帮忙.	She's the new girl in the office, so give her any help she needs.
大量	每年都要花费da4liang4金钱在广告上。	A large amount of money is spent on advertisements every year.
意味	那一切yi4wei4看大量艰苦工作。	It all amounts to a lot of hard work.
箱子	你有没有绳子来把这些xiang1zi5捆好？	Have you got some twine to tie this box up?
罗马	古Luo2ma3帝国征服了欧洲大部分.	Ancient Rome subjected most of Europe (to its rule).
虫	被chong2蛀的被chong2钻透或咬啮的	Bored through or gnawed by worms.
支付	我一时心软同意了zhi1fu4她度假的费用.	In a weak moment, I agreed to pay for her holiday.
花园	我们在hua1yuan2里种了许多蔬菜。	We've grown many vegetables in our garden.
绝不	他jue2bu4像是会接受贿赂的人。	He is the last man to accept a bribe.
头痛	我tou2tong4得很厉害，而且我的鼻涕很多。	I have a bad headache and my nose run a lot.
印度	Yin4du4是大象和老虎的产地。	India is the home of elephants and tigers.
寒冷	han2leng3的天气终于在三月末结束了。	The cold weather at last broke at the end of March.
优雅	高尚的，有教养的品味和举止you1ya3的；有文化的；有修养的	Marked by refinement in taste and manners; cultured; polished.
能否	你neng2fou3（给我）举个例子, 以说明你的意思?	Can you quote (me) an example of what you mean?
电子	金属内电流是由dian4zi3运动引起的。	An electric current in metal is caused by the movement of electrons.
织	民兵民兵zhi1中的一员	A man who is a member of a militia.
眼前	当我们到达山顶时，美丽景色展现在我们的yan3qian2。	The beautiful scenery was set out before us as we reached the top of the hill.
整天	我zheng3tian1忙个不停，疲於奔命。	I've been on the run all day and I'm exhausted.
谈论	他就是我们刚才tan2lun4的那个人。	That is the man about whom we were speaking.
转给	贵公司的样品已收到，现已zhuan3gei3用户。	Receiving your sample, we have show them to their buyer.
名人	他给一些为报纸专栏｀写＇文章的体育界ming2ren2做捉刀人.	He ghosts for a number of sports personalities who `write' newspaper columns.
毛衣	我的套头mao2yi1遇热水後收缩了.	The hot water shrank my pullover.
不见	那辆汽车一转弯就bu4jian4了.	The car turned (round) the corner and disappeared from sight.
小组	四个构成的一组因共同的财产或行为而联系在一起的四人xiao3zu3或联盟	A group or combination of four associated by common properties or behavior.
提升	他被ti2sheng1为陆军中尉/海军上尉。	He was promoted to lieutenant.
到家	你平时下班几点dao4jia1?	When do you normally get in from work?
客栈	尽管ke4zhan4老板很热情，但我们猜想他的真正目的是为了得到更多的钱。	Although the innkeeper was warm, we guessed that his real goad was to get more money.
友情	该团体的成员之间有牢固的you3qing2.	There were strong ties of friendship between the members of the society.
百万	罗马每年要接待数以bai3wan4计的游客.	Rome welcomes millions of visitors each year.
观看	他透过一片熏黑的玻璃guan1kan4太阳.	He looked at the sun through a sheet of smoked glass.
鲜花	xian1hua1到处盛开。	The flowers are blooming everywhere.
金钱	jin1qian2正在被更直接地用来取代某种东西。	Money is being used in place of something more direct.
学院	这所xue2yuan4接待了一批来访的俄国科学家.	The college is (playing) host to a group of visiting Russian scientists.
登	乐队奏乐欢迎演员deng1台.	The band played the performers onto the stage.
以下	yi3xia4是人生而平等的真理。	What follows is the truth that men are created equal.
冬季	使用dong1ji4专用车胎在泥地或雪地上可增加附著摩擦力.	Winter tyres give increased traction in mud or snow.
全身	他被雨浇得quan2shen1湿透。	He was wet from head to foot from the shower.
没法	他是一个能忍耐的人，但就连他也mei2fa3忍受那种挑衅了。	He is a patient man, but not even he could sit down under that kind of provocation.
哎呀	ai1ya1，我把毛活儿落在公共汽车上了。	Oh dear, I've left my knitting on the bus!
画面	装上新天线後hua4mian4清晰多了.	The picture is much clearer with the new aerial.
路过	我正巧lu4guo4，所以我想不妨进来坐几分钟。	I was just passing, so I thought I'd blow in for a few minutes.
车子	最后，我终于成功地让我的che1zi5慢慢移动。	At last I succeeded in getting my car moving slowly.
邮件	我总是每天一早就仔细查阅我的you2jian4.	I always start the day by going through my mail.
说说	我想请你shuo1shuo5对这种情况的意见。	I need your slant on the situation.
来临	随着复活节的lai2lin2，冬天结束而春天来了。	With the coming of Easter, winter ends and spring comes.
深深	我们都被他的爱国精神shen1shen1感动了。	We are all deeply moved by his patriotism.
陪审团	pei2shen3tuan2的全体成员，你们现在必须退下去考虑应如何裁决。	Members of the jury, you must now retire to consider your verdict.
发送	由终端操作员或计算机fa1song5的字符或其它的短报文，用以指出已经收到前一报文。	By a terminal operator or computer;to send a character or other message to indicate that the previous message has been received.
凡	fan2有文化的人都该一读此书.	Every literate person should read this book.
多变	风力较弱，风向duo1bian4。	Winds are mainly light and variable.
封面	评定一本书，不能凭feng1mian4。	Judge not a book by its cover.
作战	我们的部队在前方3条战线上zuo4zhan4。	Our armies were fighting on three fronts.
用心	他皱著眉头yong4xin1地思考.	His brow corrugated with the effort of thinking.
剧	她的新ju4作获得广泛宣传.	Her new play has attracted a lot of publicity.
天亮	这个勤奋的学生每天tian1liang4以前就起床了。	The diligent student gets up before dawn every day.
走路	他出事后重新学习zou3lu4要有极大的毅力。	Learning to walk again after his accident required great patience.
乡村	我很不喜欢住在闭塞的xiang1cun1。	I hate being shut away in the country.
原本	他yuan2ben3能按预定进度做完这件事的，但不知怎地却落后了。	He could have finished it on schedule, but somehow he fell behind.
向前	一直xiang4qian2走过了教堂，约莫半英里就是体育场。	Keep on past the church; the stadium is about half a mile further on.
打败	南部邦联被北方da3bai4了。	The Confederacy was defeated by the northern states.
涂	他在面包上tu2黄油。	He spread butter on his bread.
上次	这些防御工事是shang4ci4战争时修建的。	These fortifications were built during the last war.
做法	这种zuo4fa3不符合我们的政策.	Such an act would not be in accord with our policy.
头疼	昨晚我酒喝得太多真是自讨苦吃, 现在tou2teng2得很厉害!	I'm paying the penalty for drinking too much last night; I've got a dreadful headache!
起身	我刚站qi3shen1，他就挥手让我坐着。	I had no sooner stood up than he waved me to remain sitting.
胖子	那个pang4zi5坐下时，旧椅子发出嘎吱的响声。	The old chair gave a groan when the fat man sat down on it.
说法	你的shuo1fa5完全不真实，我要求立即道歉。	Your allegations are completely untrue, and I demand an immediate apology.
猛	英雄用剑meng3劈巨人。	The hero smote the giant with his sword.
不知	bu4zhi1什么原因，她自杀了。	For one reason or another, she committed suicide.
耶稣	人们通常认为基督时代是从Ye1su1出世开始算起的。	The Christian age is usually reckoned from the birth of Christ.
相互	对於发生的事情[对於总统说的话]说法xiang1hu4矛盾.	There were contradictory versions of what happened/of what the President said.
转身	汤姆每次zhuan3shen1都把被子往他那边再拉一些。	Every time Tom rolled over he pulled more of the bedclothes to his side.
提到	一ti2dao4他的名字，他立即站了起来。	At the mention of his name, he instantly stood up.
难以置信	我发觉他的所作所为（不负责任）到了简直令人nan2yi3zhi4xin4的地步.	I find his behaviour (irresponsible) beyond belief.
逃跑	他tao2pao3一周後警方才逮住他.	He was on the run for a week before the police got him.
卫生	流行病通常是和不良的wei4sheng1条件有关的。	Epidemic disease is often in connection with bad sanitary conditions.
收集	我喜欢shou1ji2秋天赤褐色的叶子。	I like to collect russet autumn leaves.
罢了	她说什麽东西也没被偷, 那不过是掩饰ba4le5.	She said nothing was stolen, but that's just a cover-up.
留给	她遗liu2gei3你500英镑.	She left you 500.
口袋	她把两手插在上衣kou3dai5里。	She plunged her hands into her coat pockets.
上车	那条高速公路shang4che1祸发生得越来越频繁。	Accidents on that highway are happening with increasing frequency.
每次	mei3 ci4她动一下腿，就发出一声呻吟。	Each time she moved her leg, she let out a moan.
发出	我见过火山喷fa1chu1的熔岩流。	I've seen the stream of lava from a volcano.
幸好	在我受到攻击时, xing4hao3有个警察经过.	By a happy chance a policeman was passing as I was attacked.
机器人	ji1qi4ren2逐渐代替了装配线上的工人.	Robots are replacing people on assembly lines.
走开	老人快步zou3kai1了。	The old man set off at a quick trot.
船长	chuan2zhang3在航海日志中描述了这次事故。	The captain described the accident in the ship's log.
队员	炊事员把罐头食品分给所有登山dui4yuan2。	The cook served out tins of food to all the mountaineers.
大门	向da4men2走去的人受到了哨兵的查问.	People approaching the gate were challenged by the sentry.
亲人	他很关心别人, 因而大家都把他当作qin1ren2.	He showed such concern that people took him to be a relative.
吵醒	你一直睡著, 这场雷雨都没把你chao3xing3.	You slept right through the thunderstorm.
道路	压路机是用来修筑dao4lu4的。	A road roller is used in making and repairing roads.
牧师	mu4shi5每星期二作履行神职的访问。	The priest makes pastoral visits every Tuesday.
打赌	我敢da3du3他已回家了。	I'll bet he's been back home.
祝愿	听说你已定婚，Marry，请接受我的良好zhu4yuan4。	I have heard of your engagement, Mary. Please accept my best wishes.
面试	我书面考试已经及格了, 下一个难关是mian4shi4.	I've passed the written test; the interview is the next hurdle.
嘴巴	守口的人一个zui3ba5紧闭的人，尤指能保守秘密的人	A close-mouthed person, especially one who can keep a secret.
相遇	我们（彼此）xiang1yu4纯属偶然.	We met (each other) quite by chance.
惬意	要不是因为下雨, 我们的假日一定过得很qie4yi4.	But for the rain we would have had a nice holiday.
开口	我曾想带他去钓鱼，但我不好意思对他kai1kou3。	I wanted to take him fishing but I was too timid to ask him.
真诚	我确信他做事zhen1cheng2。	I'm sure he acted in good faith.
科技	中国教育的主要目的是教授所需的ke1ji4知识以把中国变成现代化的社会主义国家。	The min purpose of Chinese education is to teach the science and technology needed to made China into a modern socialist nation.
判	他被pan4阻挡犯规。	He was found guilty of obstruction.
猛击	他meng3ji1对手的身体.	He punished his opponent with fierce punches to the body.
全新	崭新的处于新鲜和未使用状态的；quan2xin1的	Being in a fresh and unused condition; completely new.
神父	shen2fu5听取那个青年的忏悔。	The priest confessed the young man.
深夜	他一直工作到shen1ye4.	He carried on working long into the night.
鸭子	这只母鹅比那只ya1zi5大多了。	This goose is much larger than the duck.
用来	抑制物yong4lai2压制、控制或消除的事物	Something that serves to suppress, check, or eliminate.
杭州	这个周末我们将去Hang2zhou1旅行。	We shall make an excursion to Hangzhou this weekend.
童年	在父母的慈爱的抚育下，我度过了幸福的tong2nian2。	I spent a happy childhood under the loving care of my parents.
语音	想到将要发生的事，她yu3yin1中充满了惊异。“我的态度是：事情发生了，设法应付，但避免正面冲突。”	A note of surprise filled her voice at the prospect.""My attitude is to roll with what happens, "" she said.
人心	观赏一幅美丽的图画使ren2xin1满意足。	Looking at a beautiful painting always gives one satisfaction.
吃完	我chi1wan2晚饭常感到困, 一到晚上就又精神了.	I often feel sleepy after supper and then I get my second wind later in the evening.
渐渐	这些花因缺水而jian4jian4枯萎。	The flowers are wilting for lack of water.
好笑	我不明白你们为什么对这件事感到如此hao3xiao4。	I fail to see why you find it so amusing.
有钱	他you3qian2是事实，但他必须知道钱不是一切。	It is true that he is rich, but he must know money is not everything.
家长	委员会主要由教师和学生jia1zhang3组成.	The committee was composed mainly of teachers and parents.
快速	快的，敏捷的行为的、动作的，或能够kuai4su4行为或运动的；敏捷的	Acting, moving, or capable of acting or moving quickly; swift.
安全感	他们哄骗我，让我产生了一种虚假的an1quan2gan3。	They lulled me into a false sense of security.
全都	我们quan2dou1是为了他才放弃这个计划的。	It was all because of him that we gave up the plan.
车站	我们很早就动身去che1zhan4以便赶上头班火车。	We left for the station so early as to catch the first train.
招呼	不跟你父亲打个zhao1hu5就走是非常不合适的。	To go away without telling your father is most irregular.
有限	有些国家的燃料供应非常you3xian4。	There are some countries where (=in which) the supply of fuel is very limited.
处于	我们真的chu3yu2困境——没人照顾婴儿。	We are in a real fix - there is nobody to look after the baby.
车祸	che1huo4夺去了他的妻子和儿子的生命。	The accident bereaved him of his wife and child.
轻轻	那猫qing1qing1一跃就够到了树枝.	With an easy spring the cat reached the branch.
下降	气球空气外逸而缓缓xia4jiang4.	The balloon descended gradually as the air came out.
老是	他lao3shi4打扰我.	He's constantly disturbing me.
当作	我们把码头工人罢工dang4zuo4头条新闻	We'll lead with the dock strike.
非洲	对他来说，Fei1zhou1是一片神秘的土地。	Africa is a mysterious land to him.
手里	保守党在上次议会选举中从工党shou3 li3夺得这个议席.	The Conservatives won the seat (ie in Parliament) from Labour at the last election.
雇	你得gu4个人监督这一工程.	You must employ someone to oversee the project.
后天	你的胶卷hou4tian1就可以冲洗出来。	Your film will be processed the day after tomorrow.
母	【谚】勤力佳运之mu3。	Diligence is the mother of good luck.
屋顶	狂风暴雨中那房子的wu1ding3倒塌了下来。	The roof of that house caved in during the severe storm.
头脑	这个新兴的国家需要有现代tou2nao3之统治者。	The new nation needs a modern-minded ruler.
大地	随着电脑的发明，社会似乎已经大da4di4改变了。	With the inventing of the computer, society seems to have changed greatly.
篮球	杰克不仅是个好学生，而且还是名lan2qiu2队员。	Jack is not only a good student but also a basketball player.
英文	他几乎连一个Ying1wen2单词都不会说。	He spoke scarcely a word of English.
搜查	警方来sou1cha2大楼时, 大家都很惊慌.	It was panic stations when the police arrived to search the building.
说实话	请跟我shuo1 shi2hua4。	Be kind enough to tell me the truth.
愁	我心情chou2闷, 不想和任何人讲话。	I am out of spirits and don't want to speak to anyone.
傻子	【谚】孩子和sha3zi5，口中无诈语。	Children and fools tell the truth.
凯旋	胜利的，kai3xuan2的关于胜利的或有胜利的性质的	Relating to or having the nature of a triumph.
赶上	我们已经尽了一切可能来gan3shang4他们。	We have done all we could to catch up with them.
上周	从shang4zhou1起，我在工作中落后了。	I have fall behind in my work since last week.
汤姆	你一定要断了嫁给Tang1mu3的念头.	You can give up all/any thought of marrying Tom.
潜伏	他被感染了一种qian2fu2性的传染病。	He was infected with a latent infection.
做饭	早晨我妈妈总是慌慌张张：zuo4fan4，收拾房间，送我最小的弟弟上幼儿园，然后去上班。	In the morning, my mother is always in a rush: she cooks, makes the room tidy, takes my younger brother to the nursery, and then goes to work.
你好	听起来ni3hao3象蛮喜欢的。	It sounds like you enjoyed it.
明信片	她在ming2xin4pian4上草草地写了几个字.	She scrawled a few words on a postcard.
大师	希罗宁姆斯·博希是怪诞派绘画da4shi1。	Hieronymus Bosch was a master of the grotesque in painting.
微薄	他只能靠wei1bo2的收入来养家。	He had to support his family with his meager income.
路边	公共汽车向lu4bian1靠，让小轿车超过去。	The bus pulled in to let the cars pass.
社交	他活动于she4jiao1甚严的she4jiao1圈内，而且属于那些最不愿吸收外人的俱乐部。	He moves in exclusive social circles and belongs to the most exclusive clubs.
物品	皮制品任一种由压平上光或鞣制过的皮制成的wu4pin3或部件	Any of various articles or parts made of dressed or tanned hide, such as a boot or strap.
气温	甚至在日落之后，qi4wen1也不见降低。	Even after sunset there was little moderation in the temperature.
药物	这yao4wu4引起了剧烈的反应.	The medicine produced a violent reaction.
没用	这辆新汽车的车身mei2yong4多少金属材料, 大部分是塑料的.	There isn't much metal in the bodywork of this new car; it's mainly plastic.
老人	这位lao3ren2气得发抖。	The old man quivered with rage.
南方	湿润的风从nan2fang1吹来。	A humid wind blew from the south.
晓得	只知道一点点，不如完全不xiao3de5。	You might as well not know a thing at all as know it only a little.
满满	他们吃了man3man3一罐果酱.	They've eaten a whole pot of jam!
不对	我猜得对不是bu4dui4？	Have I guessed right or wrong?
足球	他们试图预测这场zu2qiu2比赛的结果。	They tried to forecast the result of the football match.
杀害	敌人掠夺了这个地区，并且sha1hai4了许多村民。	The enemy raped the country and killed many villagers.
碰上	如果我peng4shang5他，一定向他解释那件事。	I'll certainly explain it to him, if I can lay hold on him.
陈	直chen2动词chen2述语气中用的动词	A verb in the indicative mood.
不论	bu4lun4你去不去，请打电话给我。	Whether you will go (or not), please call me up.
化身	那些警卫都是残暴的野兽, 他们的首领是个魔鬼的hua4shen1.	The guards were sadistic beasts and their leader was the devil incarnate.
市长	平民们在广场上集会反对他们的新shi4zhang3。	The rabbles met on the square to oppose their new mayor.
指控	他的zhi3kong4遭到一阵愤怒的反对声。	His charges were met with cries of anger.
松	这个把柄song1了.	The handle has come loose.
大楼	那张照片上的突出物是我们的da4lou2。	The projection on the picture is our building.
最佳	希望你我双方尽力在销售优质产品的同时提供zui4jia1的服务。	Let us jointly do our best to sell high quality products with high quality services.
说出	那老人好容易喘著气shuo1chu1几句话。	The old man manage to puff out a few words.
医疗	你所持的护照可使你享有免费yi1liao2.	Your passport qualifies you to receive free medical treatment.
当中	在我的老友dang1zhong1，他看来最为年轻。	Among my old friends he has worn best.
迷失	她对我们的警告充耳不闻，结果mi2shi1了方向。	She turn a deaf ear to our warning and get lose.
大声	我da4sheng1打了个呵欠，可他还是不停地讲下去。	I gave a loud yawn, but he just kept on talking.
礼拜	祈祷椅li3bai4着跪着祈祷时使用的一种可折叠的小凳子，尤指英格兰国王举行加冕礼时使用的	A folding or small desk stool at which worshipers kneel to pray, especially one on which the British sovereign kneels at the time of coronation.
英尺	这房间长15ying1chi3，宽10ying1chi3。	The room is 15 feet in length and 10 feet in breadth.
供	工人们装好了gong1水系统。	The workmen fixed the water system.
迷	他在荒地里mi2了路。	He lost his way in the heath.
土	tu3太干了，不能种东西。	The soil is too dry for planting.
单纯	幸福并不在于dan1chun2地占有金钱；幸福还在于取得成就后的喜悦，在于创造努力时的激情。	Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money, it lies in the joy of achievement, in the thrill of creative efforts.
而言	就英文er2 yan2，它并不像你所认为的那样难。	So far as English is concerned, it is not so difficult as you might think.
尖叫	我的女儿看见了一条鼻涕虫，jian1jiao4了起来。	My daughter screamed when she saw a slug.
齐	钝剪刀剪不qi2.	Blunt scissors don't cut cleanly.
牛肉	非洲向欧洲出口niu2rou4。	Africa is exporting beef to Europe.
歌声	ge1sheng1虽已结束，但美妙的旋律仍在萦回。	The song is ended, but the melody lingers on.
四处	她派遣了一只牛虻去折磨伊俄。伊俄si4chu4躲藏，游过了大海，这海从些就以她命名叫伊奥尼亚海。	She sent a gadfly to torment Io, who, in her flight, swam through the sea, named after her, Ionian.
加拿大	女王正对Jia1na2da4进行私人访问.	The Queen is making a private visit to Canada.
俄罗斯	E2luo2si1是被包藏在一个闷胡芦里面的神秘物体之中的谜。	Russia is a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma.
清新	早晨qing1xin1的空气使我感到十分愉快。	The morning fresh air makes me feel quite frisky.
忧伤	葬礼是一个令人you1shang1的场合。	A funeral is a melancholy occasion.
男性	nan2xing4和女性是平等的。	The male and female genders are equal.
关掉	如果机器出故障，就把开关guan1diao4。	Turn off the switch when anything goes wrong with the machine.
天地	孩子们经常有他们自己的tian1di4，你最好不要干涉他们的事。	Children are often in a world by themselves. You'd better not interfere in their business.
桌面	zhuo1mian4是一块石板。	The top of the table was formed by a stone slab.
马路	这个少先队员扶着盲人过了ma3lu4。	The Young Pioneer saw the blind man across the road.
吸引力	冰淇淋对孩子们非常有xi1yin3li4。	Ice cream is attractive to children.
开会	你去kai1hui4之前，咱们能私下说句话吗？	Could we have a word before you go to the meeting?
上来	民兵和公安人员这时（向这些特务）包围shang4lai2。	Militiaman and public security men now closed in(on the spies).
街上	她今天在jie1shang5竟能屈尊跟我打招呼。	She actually condescend to say hello to me in the street today.
早饭	吃zao3fan4时，做稀粥是很方便的。	Gruel is convenient to make in the morning for breakfast.
描述	这本书miao2shu4了一个演员的一生。	The book portrays the life of an actor.
周日	领事馆Zhou1ri4不办公。	The consulate is closed on Sunday.
战士	zhan4shi4们为取得胜利而欢跃。	The soldiers exulted at their victory.
免	他们mian3除了他的监禁。	They discharged him from the prison.
农场	他们已经在一个nong2chang3里定居下来。	They have settled down on a farm.
黄瓜	香瓜属植物任一种相关或类似植物的统称，如刺瓜和huang2gua1	Any of several related or similar plants, such as the bur cucumber or the squirting cucumber.
摄影师	这位she4ying3shi1拍了一张象群的照片。	The photographer took a photo of a herd of elephants.
一时	他yi1shi2想不开, 自杀了.	He committed suicide during a fit of depression.
萨	Sa4姆听了这消息后紧皱眉头。	Sam bent his brows upon hearing the news.
人群	ren2qun2中的人将宣扬他们的政敌的标语撕了下来。	The crowd ripped down posters depiction their political opponents.
刚好	很抱歉，你的病gang1hao3我就给你加上了新的负担，但确实没有别的人能干这活。	I am sorry to impose a new burden on you so soon after your illness, but there is no one else who is capable of doing this work.
微风	wei1feng1轻拂着她的脸颊。	The light wind gently brushed her cheek.
钻	大门锁上了，但是我们从篱笆的缺口中zuan1了出去。	The gate was locked but we went through a gap in the fence.
上校	shang4xiao4命令士兵们在甲板上集合。	The colonel ordered their soldiers to gather on the deck.
地下	平常的di4xia4火车接近车站时，发出的声音可能是最大声的喷射机的两倍。	An ordinary subway train, approaching the station, can be twice as loud as the loudest jet.
飞行	【谚】祸来如fei1xing2，祸去似步行。	Misfortunes come on wings and depart on foot.
整整	她住院住了zheng3zheng3一年了.	She spent the whole of the year in hospital.
某人	说话的艺术有效地使用词并优雅地传授mou3ren2思想的艺术和技巧	The art and technique of using words effectively and with grace in imparting one's ideas.
小丑	我见她打扮得像个xiao3chou3，把我笑得直不起腰来。	I just curled up when I saw her dressed as a clown.
注意力	他总想成为zhu4yi4li4的焦点。	He always wants to be the focus of attention.
被捕	那位革命者为避免bei4bu3在地下躲藏了几个星期。	The revolutionist eluded capture for weeks by hiding underground.
订阅	我ding4yue4了几份杂志。	I subscribed to several magazines.
海滩	我们赤着脚在hai3tan1上走来走去。	We walked around the beach barefoot.
歌词	我不知道这首歌的ge1ci2, 但我可以哼给你听.	I don't know the words of the song but I can hum it to you.
西班牙	有人告诉我说，Xi1ban1ya2是个浪漫的国家。	I was told that Spain is a romantic nation.
扩建	老矿区的六十多个矿井正在kuo4jian4。	More than60 pits in old mining areas are being extended.
短暂	献身的一种duan3zan4的宗教服务	A short religious service.
和尚	he2shang4都剃光头.	Buddhist priests shave their heads.
手段	如果其他shou3duan4均告失败，我们将诉之武力。	If other means fail we shall resort to force.
钢琴	他演奏gang1qin2时表现出极强的感受力.	He plays the piano with great feeling.
做梦	我从未答应过把汽车借给你: 你是在zuo4meng4吧!	I never promised to lend you my car: you must be dreaming!
平台	阳台是有墙的ping2tai2。	A balcony is a platform with a wall.
演唱	这两人用和声yan3chang4.	The two sang in harmony.
餐馆	这个can1guan3有公共卫生部门官员定期前来检查.	The restaurant is visited regularly by public health officers.
列	这lie4火车半夜出轨了。	The train wrecked at midnight.
魔术师	mo2shu4shi1从他的帽子里变出一只兔子。	The magician conjured a rabbit out of his hat.
不久	我bu4jiu3就习惯了他那些奇怪的做法.	I soon got accustomed to his strange ways.
高度	将军gao1du4赞扬了他在那次战争中的英勇事迹。	His heroism in that war was highly praised by the general.
机票	我们预订了下一班的ji1piao4.	We're booked on the next flight.
心跳	激动使我的xin1tiao4加快。	The excitement quickened my pulse.
增长	这五年来，出生人数有很大的zeng1zhang3。	There has been a great leap in the number of births in these past five years.
美金	我需要把mei3jin1换成法郎.	I need to change my dollars into francs.
诅咒	基督教加尔文派教义中上帝没有指明该zu3zhou4的人，只决定了自己的选民	The Calvinist doctrine that God neglected to designate those who would be damned, positively determining only the elect.
蜂蜜	feng1mi4水水和feng1mi4的混合物，混合物发酵时变成feng1mi4酒	A mixture of water and honey that becomes mead when fermented.
不知不觉	bu4zhi1-bu4jue2的；不自觉的	Lacking conscious awareness; unmindful.
早就	前年夏天它就坏了。虽然我zao3jiu5许诺过我自己修，但是我从未腾出空来。	It had broken down the previous summer, and though I promised to repair it, I had never got round to it.
如同	书和我的关系正ru2tong2水和植物的关系。	As water is to the plant, so are books to me.
战场	这个zhan4chang3被视为圣地以纪念战死在这里的战士。	This battle field is consecrated to the memory of the soldiers who died here.
桶	我想要一tong3牛奶。	I want a pail of milk.
长期	鉴于你我双方chang2qi1的业务关系，我们可以考虑减价。	In view of our long-standing business relations, we can consider a price reduction.
众多	海涅，亨利希1797－1856德国作家，自1831年之后生活在巴黎。他的浪漫主义诗歌及社会论文充满了他对自己祖国土地和人民的热爱，对zhong4duo1德国现代研究机构的嘲笑	German writer who lived in Paris after1831. His romantic poems and social essays are marked by his love for the German land and people and derision for many modern German institutions.
夫	马车fu1的工作非常辛苦。	Wagoner's work is very hard.
场景	在连续的chang3jing3中使用同样的道具以确保前後衔接.	Continuity is ensured by using the same props in successive scenes.
检察官	内庭法官与jian3cha2guan1私下讨论或听取不必在法庭上审讯的案件的房间	A room in which a judge may consult privately with attorneys or hear cases not taken into court.
侧	身体同ce4的处于或影响着身体的同ce4的	Located on or affecting the same side of the body.
添	真抱歉给你tian1了这么多麻烦。	I am so sorry to give you not a little trouble.
死刑	应该废除si3xing2吗?	Should the death penalty be abolished?
杂种	骡子是公驴和母马交配而生的za2zhong3。	A mule is a hybrid of a donkey and a horse.
之内	这个地区还不在通讯网的覆盖zhi1nei4。	This area has not been covered by the communication net.
大会	da4hui4代表中有来自海外的代表.	The conference delegates included representatives from abroad.
之所以	他zhi1suo3yi3成功是因为他工作勤奋。	He achieved because he was a hard worker.
喜剧	我喜欢xi3ju4而不喜欢悲剧。	I prefer comedy to tragedy.
委员会	主席一职由wei3yuan2hui4的成员轮流担任。	The post of chairman rotates among members of the committee.
体重	他在浴室的磅秤上称ti3zhong4.	He weighed himself on the bathroom scales.
击败	他被对手ji1bai4后，我尽力安慰他。	I tried to comfort him after he was defeated by his opponent.
地板	我们把书在di4ban3上堆起来。	We put the books in piles on the floor.
乔治	老师说只惩罚珍妮特、 Qiao2zhi4和休, 因而饶了我.	The teacher said only Janet, George and Sue were to be punished, so that let me out.
鬼魂	你见到的是实物, 还是gui3hun2?	Was it something substantial that you saw, or was it a ghost?
大陆	在海上航行了三天，我们终于看见了da4lu4。	After three days at sea we sighted the land.
电视台	dian4shi4tai2为出现的干扰表示歉意，那是由于恶劣的天气状况造成的。	The television station apologized for the interference, which was due to bad weather conditions.
疼痛	我浑身teng2tong4。	I ache all over.
在场	只有在王室成员zai4chang3的时候才升起这面旗帜。	The flag is only raised when royalty are present.
敲门	谁在qiao1 men2?	Who is knocking at the door?
烦躁	fan2zao4不安的人	One that fidgets.
车票	所有乘客都必须出示che1piao4。	All passengers are required to show their tickets.
欢喜	他huan1xi3得说不出来。	In the fullness of his joy, he could hardly speak.
忘掉	我认为你最后的那个论点是在转移目标，以便我们wang4diao4要点。	I think your last argument was a diversion to make us forget the main point.
麦克	真羡慕mai4ke4，他的车子真漂亮。	I envy Mike, whose car is fancy.
前往	就在昨天，他动身qian2wang3美国。	It was yesterday that he started for America.
人体	手臂和腿是ren2ti3的组成部分, 是构成完整的ren2ti3必不可少的.	The arms and legs are integral parts of the human body; they are integral to the human body.
妙	他的miao4语引起一阵哄堂大笑。	His witty remark caused a storm of laughter.
可笑	我觉得他穿的那件衬衣真ke3xiao4。	I can't get over that shirt he was wearing.
台词	只有当演员把tai2ci2背得滚瓜烂熟时，我们排戏才会有成效。	Only when the actors have their lines(down) pat can we practice the play effectively.
大道	住在通衢da4dao4上的最大缺点就是噪声不断。	The great drawback to living on a main road is the constant noise.
一点点	yi1dian3dian3对你不会有什么坏处。	A little of it will not do you any harm.
致命	但是，英语的确有一个可能的zhi4ming4敌人这就是它自身。	But, English does have one possible mortal enemy-itself.
糖果	大多数孩子都喜欢吃tang2guo3，但也有一些例外。	Most children like sweets, but there are some exceptions.
诺	麦利nuo4精纺毛纱一种柔软质轻的织物，原先是用麦利nuo4羊毛纺成的，但现在用任何优质羊毛都可织成	A soft, lightweight fabric made originally of merino wool but now of any fine wool.
料	纪念碑的正面是石liao4做的.	The monument was fronted with stone.
蒙	琼斯夫人丈夫的死讯把她吓meng2了。	Her husband's death knocked Mrs.Jones off her feet.
底下	角落里有一堆报纸--那di3xia5你找过了吗?	There's a pile of newspapers in the corner have you looked underneath?
安心	看到他仍然像以前一样健康，真叫人an1xin1。	It is a great relief to see him still as strong as he was.
捕鱼	此段河流严禁外人bu3yu2.	The fishing in this stretch of the river is strictly preserved.
勒	骑马的人lei1住了马。	The rider reined in his horse.
上升	家庭电脑的销售量近年来shang4sheng1很快.	Sales of home computers have taken off in recent years.
黄色	毛茛是一种野生植物，开杯形huang2se4花。	The buttercup is a wild plant with bright yellow cup-shaped flowers.
都市	du1shi4生活的艰难迫使他迁往乡村.	The pressures of city life forced him to move to the country.
葬礼	英国大使代表女王参加了zang4li3.	The Queen was represented at the funeral by the British ambassador.
同步	通信双方之间交换信息的格式和相对定时［tong2bu4］的一种规范。	A specification for the format and relative timing of information exchanged between communicating parties.
港	这个gang3口是天然gang3。	This harbor is a natural harbor.
大海	要不是隔著这座公寓大楼, da4hai3的景色就可以从这里一览无遗.	You'd have a good view of the sea from here except for the block of flats in between.
爆竹	bao4zhu2爆炸声把杰克的狗吓了一跳。	The fire cracker went off and scared Jack's dog.
羊毛	这件衣服是纯yang2mao2的，还是yang2mao2与尼龙混纺的 ？	Is this garment made of pure wool, or of wool mixed with nylon?
三明治	蟹肉san1ming2zhi4；豆腐san1ming2zhi4	A crab burger, a tofu burger.
装置	这个价钱把全部固定zhuang1zhi4和设备都打在里面了。	The price includes all fixtures and fittings.
寸	要是我再高几cun4，我会好高兴。	How happy I would be if I were a few inches taller!
星期五	他答应xing1qi1wu3之前完成这项工作。	He undertook to finish the job by Friday.
快要	东边地平线上的一道淡红光线使我知道天kuai4yao4亮了。	A line of pink on the eastern horizon told me that daybreak was near.
楼上	lou2shang4的房间要比底层的暖和得多。	The upstairs rooms are much warmer than those on the ground floor.
骑士	亚瑟王的传说代表qi2shi4精神的顶峰.	The legends of King Arthur represent the apotheosis of chivalry.
尤其是	光度计用来测量光的性质、you2qi2shi4光的强度和通量的仪器	An instrument for measuring a property of light, especially luminous intensity or flux.
惊	马听到爆炸声受了jing1。	The horse took a fright at the sound of the explosion.
也就是说	我今年22岁了, ye3jiu4shi4shuo1, 我是 1975年出生的。	I am 22, that is to say, I was born in 1975.
火星	如同地球一样，huo3xing1绕太阳转。	Like the earth, Mars go round the Sun.
强盗	他们密切注意那个qiang2dao4。	They kept a wary eye on the robber.
楼梯	我们听到了他走在lou2ti1上沉重的脚步声。	We heard his heavy tread on the staircase.
大厅	我们已经找到几个人自愿协助打扫da4ting1.	We've enlisted a few volunteers to help clean the hall.
鸣	时钟ming2响报午时已至	The clock chimed noon.
海军	他因刺探该国hai3jun1基地的情报而被驱逐出境。	He was expelled from the country for spying on their naval bases.
打破	她想要da3po4世界纪录，已接近成功。	Her attempt to break the world record nearly came off.
胡子	汤姆长hu2zi5了, 我们上次见到他时还没长呢.	Tom has sprouted a beard since we saw him last.
坏事	这种huai4shi4不是一下能扫除干净的。	Such evil practice cannot be swept away at once.
获	新法例广huo4赞同.	The new laws gained widespread acceptance.
大麻	da4ma2可用来做衣服和绳子。	Hemp can be used for cloth and ropes.
会员	要加入俱乐部必须有一位hui4yuan2做介绍人.	To join the club you have to be put up by an existing member.
之下	处于这种可怕的压力zhi1xia4，不疯才怪呢。	It's hard to stay sane under such awful pressure.
胡	我把衬衫烫　hu2了.	I scorched my shirt when I was ironing it.
商场	那家shang1chang3的西洋梳镜柜看上去很特别。	The chiffonier in that shop looks special.
以外	我很难设想能到英国yi3wai4的地方去生活.	I can't imagine living (ie don't think I shall ever live) anywhere but England.
议员	他当选为切斯特地方yi4yuan2。	He got in for Chester.
完蛋	财政损失使他wan2dan4。	The financial loss did him in.
艺术家	那yi4shu4jia1的罩衣上沾满了颜料.	The artist's smock was covered in paint.
厌倦	玛丽谈起她聪明伶俐的儿子从不感到yan4juan4。	Mary never tires of talking about her clever son.
全国	该国需要一个能使quan2guo2团结的领袖。	The country needs a leader who will hold the nation together.
体内	瘤动物或植物ti3nei4组织的异常新生物；肿瘤	An abnormal new growth of tissue in animals or plants; a tumor.
玩儿	孩子们假装开商店wan2r5.	The children were playing at keeping shop.
胸部	那强盗以刀刺穿了那旅客的xiong1bu4。	The robber thrust his sword through the traveler's bosom.
无论如何	wu2lun4 ru2he2现在已经太迟了.	It's too late now, anyhow.
呼呼	风从门的裂缝中hu1hu1地刮了进来。	The wind whistled through a crack in the door.
奥	ao4林波斯山上的众神都来庆贺他们的婚礼。伏尔甘送给了新娘一串他亲手制作的项链，精美绝伦。	The gods left Olympus to honor the occasion with their presence, and Vulcan presented the bride with a necklace of surpassing brilliancy, his own workmanship.
玛丽	Ma3li4和我隔着花园篱笆交谈。	Mary talked with me across the garden fence.
越狱	警方正在追捕一名yue4yu4的逃犯。	The police are pursuing an escaped prisoner.
爵士	女王授予他jue2shi4身份。	The queen conferred a knighthood on him.
棒球	在日本，bang4qiu2比其他任何运动都受人欢迎。	Baseball is more popular than any other sport in Japan.
黑夜	他不分白天hei1ye4, 想打电话就打.	He's inclined to telephone at all hours of the day or night.
小孩子	这xiao3hai2zi5要表明对大人的憎恨就难免受罚。	The child cannot express his hatred of adults with impunity.
一下子	不要yi1xia4zi5全吃光留下一些以后再吃。	Don't eat them all at once; save some for later.
见识	我过去相信你是有jian4shi5的人。	I gave you credit for more sense.
伪装	那女间谍wei3zhuang1成顾问工程师.	The spy's cover was that she was a consultant engineer.
上尉	shang4wei4对我们重申了那项命令。	The captain reiterated the command to us.
远远	她yuan3yuan3地离开故乡在外地生活。	She lives a long way from home.
不可	空气，食物，水皆为生命bu4ke3缺者。	Air, food and water are indispensable to life.
狠狠	杰克不小心出了差错，老板hen3hen3训了他一顿。	Jack's boss jumped all over Jack because he made a careless mistake.
穿过	商人决定用骆驼载运货物chuan1guo4沙漠。	The merchant decided to use camels to carry his goods across the desert.
犹太人	当年流落他乡的You2tai4ren2现在生活在以色列.	People from every country of the Diaspora now live in Israel.
局长	＂ju2zhang3看上去彷佛挺厉害，但他心地正直。＂	The director seems rather fierce, but his heart is in the right place.""
富有	她并不像人们说的那麽fu4you3.	She's not as rich as people make out/as people make her out to be.
全世界	北京广播电台向quan2shi4jie4播送新闻。	Radio Beijing sends the news all over the world.
广	有些植物分布得很guang3。	Some types of plants are widely distributed.
手臂	演讲者常用手或shou3bi4做手势来强调他所说的某些要点。	A speaker often makes gestures with his hands or arms to stress something he is saying.
方程式	我不会解这个fang1cheng2shi4.	I can't make this equation come out.
护理	你必须非常小心地hu4li3，以免伤口沾上污物。	You must take the most scrupulous care to keep the wound free from the dirt.
帝国	我正在看一本关于罗马di4guo2兴衰的书。	I am reading a book about the rise and fall of the Roman Empire.
唱片	我有许多chang4pian4。	I have many discs.
适当	这个问题你在shi4dang4的时候问问她吧。	Ask her about it when a suitable moment offer itself.
难忘	我们去年有一次nan2wang4的旅行。	We had a memorable trip last year.
请问	我只是出于好奇，qing3wen4你买这辆车花了多少钱？	Just to satisfy my curiosity, how much did you pay for your car?
中学	我从这个可以引以为戒的经历zhong1xue2到了很多。	I have learned a lot from the chastening experience.
犯人	那fan4ren2在牢房里来回地走著.	The prisoner paced the floor of his cell.
酱	你要西红柿jiang4吗？	Would you like some tomato paste?
唯有	wei2you3在南台湾我才见过像这样的风景。	Only in the southern part of Taiwan have I seen such scenery as this.
公众	在这个问题上gong1zhong4的意见已两极分化.	Public opinion has polarized on this issue.
校园	我们大学的xiao4yuan2里新建了一座体育馆。	A new gymnasium has been built on our campus.
听话	他的父亲打那个不ting1hua4的男孩。	His father beat the disobedient boy.
含有	法律禁止向18岁以下的人出售han2you3酒精的饮料。	The law forbids the sale of alcohol to people under 18.
国外	他在guo2wai4的旅行中游览了许多地方。	He visited a lot of place on his trip abroad.
脚步	听到jiao3bu4声，就知道他回来了。	Footsteps announced his return.
打断	一位德国科学家da3duan4了我，并问我是否来自中国。	A German scientist interrupted me and asked if I came from China.
空中	弓箭手向kong1zhong1射出利箭。	The archers sent their shafts through the air.
上司	你跟你的新shang4si5处得如何？	How are you doing with your new boss?
度假	在du4jia4淡季，du4jia4费用较低。	Holiday prices are lower out of season.
向上	稍微xiang4shang4挪一下.	Move up a bit.
没事儿	他会mei2shi4r5的，他有成功的条件。""	He'll be all right, he's got what it takes.""
绽放	在樱花完全zhan4fang4的时候，经常容易遇到阴天或多风天。	It is apt to get either cloudy or windy when the cherry blossom are in full bloom.
灯光	她打开门，里面射出的deng1guang1在她的身影四周镶了一圈黄色的边。	She opened the door, and the yellow light from inside rimmed about her.
球员	这些qiu2yuan2们配合得很好。	These players made a very good combination.
心中	他的话已在他们xin1zhong1播下怀疑的种子。	His words had sowed the seeds of suspicion in their minds.
大众	平民的，普通的da4zhong4人民的，与da4zhong4人民有关的；普通的	Of or associated with the great masses of people; common.
走向	我们的国家正在zou3xiang4繁荣昌盛。	Our country is moving towards prosperity.
带给	资方准备谈判工资问题，并且充分利用谈判dai4gei3他们的机会，提出劳动生产率的问题。	The employers were prepared to discuss wages, and they pressed home the advantage this gave them by raising the matter of productivity.
嘴里	在英国，用刀把食物送进zui3li3被认为是粗鲁的行为。	Putting food into one's mouth with a knife is considered vulgar in England.
化妆品	所以真珠质的厚度就像脸上hua4zhuang1pin3，不久就会磨薄了。	As a result, nacre thickness is sometimes just a cosmetic layer that can wear thin over time.
东京	後来我们游览了Dong1jing1.	Next we visited Tokyo.
回想	我母亲好些年前讲的故事我都hui2xiang3得起来。	I can recall stories that my mother told me years ago.
寡妇	｀黑gua3fu5＇马下一场比赛赢定了.	Black Widow is a (dead) cert for (ie is sure to win) the next race.
标签	把biao1qian1粘贴在你的手提箱上。	Stick a label on your suitcase.
弯	你拐错wan1了。	You take the wrong turning.
检测	用于修饰或说明与故障或错误的jian3ce4和隔离有关的特性。	Pertaining to the detection and isolation of a malfunction or mistake.
小偷	警察跟踪xiao3tou1，直到他们的老窝。	The police tracked the thieves to their den.
所在	地点某物suo3zai4或可在的地方：地点	A place where something is or could be located; a site.
不良	假使语言是为了隐藏思想而被发明的，那么报纸就是对这bu4liang2发明的一大改进。	If word were invented to conceal think, newspaper should be a great improvement on a bad invention.
战胜	他们最近一次zhan4sheng4英格兰队是在1972年.	They last defeated England in 1972.
森	我前来看你，是因为安德sen1先生说你对我们的工程很感兴趣。	I came to see you on the ground that Mr Anderson said that you were interested in our project.
气息	今天的天气已露出了一丝秋天的qi4xi1。	There is a breath of autumn in the air today.
尽头	沙漠一直伸展到视线的jin4tou2.	The desert continued as far as the eye could see.
但愿	dan4yuan4他会有一结论。	I wish he would arrive at some conclusion.
乘客	cheng2ke4不得横过铁路。	Passengers mustn't cross the rails.
开工	我们已得到市政会的准许[市政会已准许我们]kai1gong1建筑.	We've got the go-ahead from the council/The council have given (us) the go-ahead to start building.
路线	我们是不是可以另试试别的lu4xian4?	Can we perhaps try another route?
头晕	我觉得tou2yun1, 得坐下来.	I feel giddy; I must sit down.
沙	干sha1吸收水份。	Dry sand absorbs water.
找回	你们如果能采取必要的措施追查并zhao3hui2这架像机我将十分感激。	I shall be grateful if you will take necessary measures to trace and recover the camera.
台上	一个小男孩在阳tai2shang4放风筝。	A boy is flying a kite in the piazza.
相比	他的书法不错，但是很难和你的xiang1bi3。	His handwriting is not bad, but it's hardly comparable with yours.
看书	你在这样弱的光线下kan4shu1会损伤视力的。	You will strain your eyes by reading in such poor light.
停车场	这个超市附近有一个地下ting2che1chang3。	There is an underground car park near the supermarket.
大学生	与此同时，许多da4xue2sheng1在罢工持续期间自愿去驾驶公共汽车。	Meanwhile, a number of university students have volunteered to drive buses while the strike lasts. All
走运	哦，真不zou3yun4。	Oh, that's tough luck.
丰厚	对您给予的feng1hou4礼物，我们不胜感激。	We are grateful to you for your bounteous gifts.
众人	那个zhong4ren2眼中的乞丐，其实是化了装的警察。	The supposed beggar was really a police officer in disguise.
患	他有huan4肺炎的危险。	He was threatened with pneumonia.
这时	非洲有一些地区zhe4shi2仍然处于殖民主义的统治之下。	Some parts of Africa still remained under colonialism.
孩子们	哄hai2zi5men5去睡可不是容易的事。	It was hard work getting the children off to bed.
警报	火警jing3bao4响时全体人员应到楼外集合.	If the fire-alarm goes, staff should assemble outside the building.
求婚	他随即向她qiu2hun1。	He thereupon asked her to marry him.
凶	别跟他动手, 他揍起人来可xiong1了.	Don't get into a fight with him: he can really dish it out.
十八	我的女儿shi2ba1岁了，已经长成为美丽的淑女。	My daughter is eighteen years old and has grown into a beautiful lady.
扫描	利用多次垂直sao3miao2来重显一幅完整图象的sao3miao2技术。电视中使用2：1的交错率，即每帧分两场，垂直sao3miao2两次，一场sao3miao2奇数行，另一场sao3miao2偶数行。	In scanning, the technique of using more than one vertical scan to reproduce a complete image. In television, 2:1 interlace is used, giving two vertical scans(fields) per frame; one field scans odd lines, and one field scans the even lines of the frame.
公车	gong1che1是如此拥挤，我被挤得动弹不得。	The bus is so full that I am jammed in and can not move.
乱七八糟	多丽，你的东西luan4qi1ba1zao1，收拾收拾房间。	Dolly, all your things are in a muddle, tidy up your room.
下车	公共汽车停下来让一些旅客xia4che1。	The bus stopped to put down some passengers.
出于	她chu1yu2情感的缘故做了此事。	She did it for sentimental reasons.
彼得	假使她获得这份工作，那对bi3 de2是当头一棒；他是拼命想得到这份工作的。	If she gets the job, that's one in the eye for Peter: he was desperate to get it.
获胜	哪些人在总统竞选中最有可能huo4sheng4?	Who are the front runners in the Presidential contest?
直觉	暂且不要考虑你从zhi2jue2上憎恶他这一因素.	Set aside for a moment your instinctive dislike of the man.
连接	这条路把所有的新城镇都lian2jie1起来了。	The road links all the new towns.
没错	你也好，我也好，都mei2cuo4。	Neither you nor I am wrong.
狐狸	【谚】hu2li5吃不到葡萄，就说葡萄酸。	The grapes are sour"", as the fox said when he could not reach them.
晴天	今天看上去是个qing2tian1。	Looks like a fine day today.
抬头	他tai2tou2一看，见是一个铁钩子正在他脑袋上方晃来晃去。	He looked up and found an iron hook dangling about his head.
极度	在1939年，当时人人都感到欧洲处于ji2du4危险的境地。	In 1939 everyone felt Europe was on the edge of the precipice.
上演	《茶馆》正在首都剧场shang4yan3。	The Teahouse"" is playing at the Capital Theater.
安娜	An1na4不会游泳, 在游泳池的深水区里挣扎著.	Anna couldn't swim and was left floundering (about/around) in the deep end of the swimming-pool.
强壮	他不仅qiang2zhuang4健康，而且还很聪明。	He is not only strong and healthy but also very smart.
科学家	这种药的副作用（ke1xue2jia1）尚未发现.	The side-effects of the drug are as yet unknown (toscientists).
吸毒	对有些人来说, xi1du2是一种逃避现实的手段.	Drug-taking is a form of escapism for some people.
乃	懒惰nai3万恶之源。	Idleness is the root of all evil.
哎哟	ai1yo1！沙子这么烫！会烫伤脚的。	Ouch! The sand is so hot! I can burn my feet.
亨利	heng1li4写给父亲的信简明扼要。	Henry's note to his father was short and sweet.
希腊	Xi1la4位于欧洲南部。	Greece is located in the south of Europe.
樱桃	吃ying1tao2前要先把梗儿去掉.	Remove the stalks from the cherries before you eat them.
球队	qiu2dui4阵容中将没有琼斯.	Jones will be missing from the team line-up.
牢	把绳子绑lao2，免得它松脱。	Bind the rope fast lest it should come loose.
照亮	我们点燃了蜡烛，蜡烛zhao4liang4了房间。	We lit the candle and the candle lit the room.
回合	裁判判定他在第一hui2he2被击败。	The referee counted him out in the first round.
挑选	她从收藏品中tiao1xuan3了一枚钻石戒指。	She selected a diamond ring from the collection.
直升机	遭遇海难的水手已经被zhi2sheng1ji1救起。	The shipwrecked sailors were rescued by helicopter.
得知	de2zhi1他痛苦的遭遇后，我忍不住同情他。	After learning of his sufferings, I couldn't help sympathizing with him.
乡下	他邀请我们到他xiang1xia5的庄园去过一次打猎的周末。	He invited us to his country estate for a weekend shoot.
提起	我的友人，多数生活在城市。然而，一ti2qi3农村，他们总是欣喜若狂。	Most of my friends live in the city, yet they always go into raptures at the mere mention of the country.
加倍	我们必须jia1bei4努力来澄清这一神秘的事件。	We must multiply our efforts to clear up the mystery.
教会	我就是这个时侯被jiao4hui4思考的。	That was when I was taught to think.
袋子	这些dai4zi5难於搬运, 倒不是因为重而是体积太大.	It's not their weight that makes these sacks hard to carry, it's their bulk.
影片	我们到该校拍摄ying3pian4时，获得校方的大力协助。	The school was very cooperative when we made a film there.
无力	病人常常虚弱wu2li4。	A sick person is often feeble.
争吵	我厌恶为钱的事兴太太zheng1chao3。	I hate to squabble with my wife about money.
心脏病	胸痛可能是xin1zang4bing4的症状。	Chest pains may be symptomatic of heart disease.
网上	曾有两位年轻人非法侵入了大学网络，创建了一个公告牌，并在上面装入了流行的商业软件，还邀请因特wang3shang4的用户下载这些软件包。	Once two lads broke into the university network, created a bulletin board, loaded popular commercial software on it and invited users across Internet to download the packages.
坏人	huai4ren2将会受到永远的惩罚。	The bad man will suffer eternal damnation.
停留	那些云彩在山顶上空ting2liu2不散.	Clouds have settled over the mountain tops.
进一步	这些情况不利于公司的jin4yi1bu4发展。	The circumstances were not propitious for further expansion of the company.
浴室	yu4shi4的地面上都是水.	The bathroom floor was swimming with water.
可能性	警方正在调查他卷入那桩罪行的ke3neng2xing4。	The police are investigating his possible involvement in the crime.
庆幸	我qing4xing4自己不必在天气这样恶劣的夜晚外出.	I'm glad I don't have to go out on such a dirty night.
认出	你能辩ren4chu1这些潦草的字迹是什麽意思吗？	Can you work out what these squiggles mean?
一手	我不能帮你，这事是你自己yi1shou3造成的。	I can't help you. You brought this on yourself.
姨妈	我是在农场由yi2ma1抚养大的。	I was raised by my aunt on a farm.
全体	那位公主赢得了quan2ti3国民的心。	The princess captured the hearts of the nation.
分离	他因与母亲fen1li2而感到不快。	He was unhappy because of his separation from his mother.
一面	他用yi1mian4凸透镜把阳光在纸上聚成焦点。	He focused the sun's ray on a piece of paper with a burning-glass.
自身	这家公司关心它zi4shen1的法人形象。	This company is concerned about its corporate image.
订婚	他俩ding4hun1的事在广受欢迎的新闻界极为轰动.	Their engagement created a terrific splash in the popular press.
叫醒	她掐了他（胳膊）一下, 把他jiao4xing3.	She gave him a pinch (on the arm) to wake him up.
脑海	设想在nao3hai3中构想的事物；概念、计划、设计或思想	Something conceived in the mind; a concept, plan, design, idea, or thought.
芝加哥	这班机是经纽约飞往Zhi1jia1ge1的.	This flight is routed to Chicago via New York.
大小	产量的da4xiao3在於我们努力的程度.	How much is produced depends on how hard we work.
工程	我们计算了成本, 清楚表明这项gong1cheng2不合算.	When we had done the costings on the project, it was clear it would not be economical to go ahead with it.
詹姆斯	Zhan1mu3si1头上裹着穆斯林的头巾，看上去很陌生。	James looks strange with a turban around his head.
引发	这次金融危机yin3fa1新的因素起了作用.	This financial crisis has brought new factors into play.
柠檬	ning2meng2含丰富的维生素C。	Lemons are rich in vitamin C.
预约	我需要yu4yue1位子吗？	Do I need a reservation?
教师	玛丽胜任jiao4shi1的工作吗？	Is Mary competent as a teacher?
预计	超出费用实际费用超过yu4ji4费用量	The amount by which actual costs exceed estimates.
礼品	女王将亲自授予li3pin3.	The Queen will make the presentation (ie will hand over the gift) herself.
治愈	他在事故中大脑受伤无法zhi4yu4.	He suffered irreversible brain damage in the crash.
百姓	平民，bai3xing4遵循平民生活的人	A person following the pursuits of civil life.
采用	这家公司必须克服对cai3yong4新技术的阻力.	The firm has to overcome its resistance to new technology.
天然	我妹妹每天都吃tian1ran2食品，但是我不吃。	My sister eats natural foods every day, but I don't.
离去	我们的厨师突然说要li2qu4, 这使我们非常惊奇。	Our cook's sudden announcement that she was leaving took us quite by surprise.
车辆	我们可以听到远处传来的che1liang4往来的嗡嗡声。	We could hear the distant drone of the traffic.
困扰	他被疑惑所kun4rao3。	He is encompassed with doubts.
官员	这个记者很想知道那位guan1yuan2是否涉及此案。	The reporter is curious to know whether the official is involved in the case.
传递	人们一桶又一桶chuan2di4著水以便把火扑灭。	Bucket of water is passed from hand to hand to put the fire out.
开头	你应该会发现这本书的结尾比kai1tou2好。	You may well find that the end of the book is better than the beginning.
惊人	你看了前任部长在报上揭露的那些jing1ren2的事实没有？	Have you read the ex-minister's amazing revelations in the newspaper?
法语	Fa3yu3教师每隔一周给这班学生做一次听写。	The French teacher dictates to the class every other week.
作出	本次会议将就这些问题zuo4chu1处理。	The meeting will deal with these problems.
有意	这实在不是you3yi4的。	It was really quite unintentional.
导演	dao3yan3喊了一声: 停!	The director shouted `Cut!'
牌子	我们不能走那条路, 因为pai2zi5上 写著｀禁止入内＇.	We can't go along that road because the sign says No Entry'.
冰淇淋	我们去吃bing1qi2lin2吧。	Let's go for an ice cream.
长久	偿清了欠债之后，他chang2jiu3以来一直在每个圣诞节寄给我20美元钱。他这是为了表达他的感激之情啊！	He kept on sending me$20 every Christmas long after his debt was paid. That's gratitude for you!
走进	那位老师看着他所有的学生zou3jin4阅览室。	That teacher is looking his all students walk into the reading room.
总部	他们用无线电跟zong3bu4联络上 了.	They made contact with headquarters by radio.
摄像机	不占空间的she4xiang4ji1；小型汽车	A compact camera; a compact car.
缠	他把一小块乾净的布chan2住脚腕.	He wrapped a clean rag around his ankle.
摧毁	1929年的经济大萧条cui1hui3了国际贸易.	The great financial crash in 1929 ruined international trade.
宁静	故事发生在一个ning2jing4的夏夜。	The story took place in a serene summer night.
增强	我需要加强锻炼和改变饮食来zeng1qiang2休质。	I need to tone up with more exercise and a change of diet.
俄国	许多杂志发表了由E2guo2航天探测器获得的有关金星的信息。	Information about Venus obtained by Russian probes has been published on some magazines.
游客	那些you2ke4大多没把坏天气放在心上。	Most tourists were unconcerned at the poor weather.
艺人	手yi4ren2熟练使用某种手艺的人	A man who practices a craft with great skill.
青菜	把土豆和qing1cai4传一传－－小心，烫手。	Pass the potatoes and the greens--careful, they're hot.
幸存者	灾难中丧失亲人的xing4cun2zhe3很值得同情.	Survivors of the disaster who lost their relatives are much to be pitied.
品味	他精于pin3wei4。	He has a refined palate.
康复	她的病情突然恶化，使一切kang1fu4的希望都化为泡影。	All hope of improvement has been snatched away by the sudden worsening of her condition.
圣经	据《sheng4jing1》所叙, 上帝按自己的形象创造了人.	According to the Bible, God created man in his image.
西装	他穿着一套黑xi1zhuang1。	He is wearing a black suit.
地面	春天的时候，踩在松软的di4mian4上非常舒服。	It's very comfortable to step on the soft ground in the spring.
愉悦	欢叫声表示yu2yue4或欢喜的口齿不清的声音	An inarticulate sound expressive of pleasure or delight.
职责	她泰然自若地履行王妃的zhi2ze2。	She perform the duties of a princess with great aplomb.
费用	原料fei4yong4昂贵使得产品价格居高不下。	The high cost of raw materials is keeping prices up.
理性	人是有li3xing4的生物。	Man is a rational being.
亲手	希望你喜欢这件东西, 这是我qin1shou3做的.	I hope you'll appreciate this: it's all done by my/mine own fair hand.
上涨	在过去十年里，物价一直在shang4zhang3。	Prices have risen steadily during the past decade.
洋葱	yang2cong1的味道一直都不散，是吗？	The smell of onions clings, doesn't it?
聆听	他们怀着浓厚的兴趣ling2ting1着演讲者。	They listened to the speaker with profound interest.
丢掉	我diu1diao4钥匙之后，真正遇到了麻烦。	I was really up the creek when I lost my keys.
逃走	犯人从大门口的警卫身旁溜过tao2zou3了.	The prisoner slipped past the guards on the gate and escaped.
寻求	科学家仍在xun2qiu2治疗感冒的方法。	Scientists are still searching for a cure to the common cold.
周一	这时，在Zhou1yi1初步解雇7000人以后，公司昨天又遣散了2500名未参加工会的工人……。	Meanwhile, the company laid off another2, 500 nonunion workers yesterday after sending an initial7, 000 packing on Monday….
深处	小路漫漫消失在密林shen1chu4.	The path petered out deep in the forest.
几百	几年来, ji3bai3个留学生在那所大学学习过。	Over the years, hundreds of overseas students have studied at that university.
视	他是近shi4眼。	He is shortsighted.
绘画	这个房间把她hui4hua4的优点充分显示出来。	The room shows off her paintings to good effect.
跟着	大雨紧gen1zhe5闪电而来。	Heavy rain came on the heels of the lightening.
通往	牛群踩出了一条tong1wang3池塘的小径。	The cattle had trodden a path to the pond.
大事	降低失业率应是头等da4shi4。	The reduction of unemployment should be paramount.
捉	我们一共zhuo1到10只金丝猴。	Altogether we caught ten golden monkeys.
团聚	他们与丢失的女儿tuan2ju4时的场面该多麽欢乐。	Imagine the joyful scene when they were reunited with their lose daughter.
买卖	他在股票交易中mai3mai5精明, 赚了很多钱.	His clever manipulation of the stock markets makes him lots of money.
废物	排出物从生命体排生物或fei4wu4，如脓、屎、尿等	Discharge or waste, such as pus or feces, from a living organism.
碎片	破碎打碎成sui4pian4的动作或过程	The act or process of breaking into fragments.
查出	假如cha2chu1你向该国走私货物，你的货物可能会被没收。	If you are caught smuggling goods into the country, they will probably be confiscated.
搬家	咱们考虑一下ban1jia1的利弊吧。	Let's consider the pluses and minuses of moving house.
滑雪	她从帆板运动和hua2xue3中得到极大乐趣.	She gets her kicks from windsurfing and skiing.
一同	王先生与州长感情甚笃，常被邀请与其yi1tong2用餐。	Mr Wang is in the good graces of the governor, and is often invited to dine with him.
风雨	防feng1yu3的能经受风吹雨淋而不受损害的	Capable of withstanding exposure to weather without damage.
星期六	我们每星期工作五天, 每xing1qi1liu4和星期日休息。	We work five days a week and have every Saturday and Sunday off.
无情	他的拒绝对我们是一个wu2qing2的打击。	His refusal was a merciless blow to us.
灰色	它是一个中型的hui1se4绅耐特皮箱。	It is a medium- size samsonite, and it's gray.
看出	不久她kan4chu1，她已经到达这座城市的郊区。	Presently she recognized that she was already in the outskirts of the city.
日志	ri4zhi4，日记对于事件、经历及感想的有规律进行的私人记录；ri4zhi4	A personal record of occurrences, experiences, and reflections kept on a regular basis; a diary.
变形	挛缩一种异常且常为永久性的缩短，如肌肉或瘢痕组织，会导致扭曲或bian4xing2，特别是身体关节处	An abnormal, often permanent shortening, as of muscle or scar tissue, that results in distortion or deformity, especially of a joint of the body.
吓坏	他遇上了警卫犬, 把他xia4huai4了.	His encounter with the guard dog had completely unnerved him.
夜里	埃尔顿把他在ye4li5睡不着时所记熟的故事，几乎一字不错的复述了一遍。	Almost word for word, Elton repeated a story which he had committed to heart in the watches of the night.
假日	教师给我们每个人都分配了jia4ri4的工作.	The teacher has assigned each of us a holiday task.
困惑	他被从监狱释放使我们kun4huo4不已。	His deliverance from the prison puzzled us.
医学	他在热带yi1xue2这一领域里广获赞扬。	He has won wide recognition in the field of tropical medicine.
心目	他心向往之的是要面对面地见见他xin1mu4中的流行曲歌星。	His ambition was to meet his favourite pop star face to face.
惊醒	她步子很轻, 以免jing1xing3孩子.	She trod lightly so as not to wake the baby.
赶走	经过几小时的激烈战斗，我们gan3zou3了入侵的匪徒。	After a few hours of fierce fighting, we saw the intruding bandits off.
晨	你能听到chen2钟响吗?	Can you hear the morning bell ringing?
掌声	他在震耳欲聋的zhang3sheng1中就坐.	He sat down amid deafening applause.
奶油	我们把nai3you2涂到面包上。	We spread butter on bread.
恐龙	他的关于kong3long2灭绝的电影取得了巨大的成功。	His movie of the extinction of dinosaurs was a great success.
传送	chuan2song4的指通过导管或管道chuan2song4下来的或输送的	Carrying down or away. Used of a duct or vessel.
入侵	ru4qin1的军队将该城镇掠夺一空。	The town was pillaged by the invading army.
加强	士兵们jia1qiang2了他们的防御工事。	The soldiers strengthened their defenses.
语文	在上高中时, 我们有yu3wen2, 英语, 科学等课程。	In senior high school we have Chinese, Science, English, and so forth.
自在	尽管我以前从未为银行工作过，但我觉得在银行工作非常舒适zi4zai5，因为我曾为一位会计师工作过，而且我习惯于同数字打交道。	Although I've never worked for a bank before, I feel quite at home there because I used to work for an accountant and I'm used to dealing with figures.
上场	如果你找不到别人，我同意为球队shang4chang3打球，但我先告诉你，我的球艺因久不练习已经生疏。	If you can't get anyone else I don't mind playing for the team, but I warn you that I'm not in practice.
坐车	孩子们玩遍了博览会上所有的娱乐项目，最后发现zuo4che1回家的钱都不够了。	The children went on everything at the Fair, and then found they hadn't enough money to get the bus home.
价钱	这所房子应该卖个好jia4qian5。	This house should fetch a good price.
本地	他在ben3di4汽车制造厂装配线上工作.	He works on the assembly line at the local car factory.
喷	水正从管子里pen1出来。	Water is spouting out of the pipe.
运动员	那个有名的yun4dong4yuan2已经没有优势赢得那场比赛了。	The famous athlete had no vantage to win the game.
深情	她用一双水汪汪的眼睛shen1qing2地看着他。	She looked at him all dewy-eyed with love.
体力	经过这许多年月, 他的ti3li4不如从前了.	His strength has diminished over the years.
寒	han2霜冻死了我们的几株幼苗。	Frost has killed several of our young plants.
路口	在大多数的主要交叉lu4kou3，都有一幅街道（朗巴德街、俄亥俄街、市场街等等）的详图刻在人行道的石头上。只要你低头看一下，就知道自己所在的位置了。	At most of the important crossings there is a plan of the streets(Lombard Street; Ohio Street; Market Street; and so on)cut into the stone of the sidewalk so that you can look down and see where you are.
关上	亲爱的，我今晚会早早回家的。""""那好极了，""她机械地应了一声，就在门guan1shang5时又补了一句，""我就算你会早回好了！""	I'll be home early tonight, darling."" ""That'll be nice, "" she answered mechanically, and, as the door closed, added, ""I'll bet! ""
地下室	那间房子是出售的，房子里有暖气设备和di4xia4shi4。	That house is for sale. It has central heating and a base room.
途中	许多伤员死在去医院的tu2zhong1了。	Many of the wounded die on their way to hospital.
各种	她喜欢ge4zhong3运动。	She likes all kinds of sports.
好心	他不仅以才能出名，而且是出名的hao3xin1。	He is famous not only for his talent but (also) for his kindness.
看起来	她kan4qi5lai5彷佛刚从外太空回来似的。	It looks as if she had just come back from outer space.
冻死	植物的幼苗常因严寒而dong4si3.	Young plants are often killed by frost.
心思	她的xin1si5完全集中在工作上了。	She was completely absorbed in her task [work].
享乐	他厌倦了xiang3le4。	He was satiated with pleasure.
临	我走到lin2湖而开的那扇门前。	I reached the gate that opened onto the lake.
天上	tian1shang4星星出来了。	Overhead the stars were out.
硬币	我们的队扔ying4bi4赢了， 因此由我们队先开球。	Our team won the toss so we play first.
上天	女人就该在家里干活儿, 这是shang4tian1的旨意吗?	Is it ordained in heaven that women should work in the home?
礼服	那位胖妇人穿着金色的紧身li3fu2，显得滑稽可笑。	That fat woman looked ridiculous in her tight golden dress.
蜘蛛	一位研究zhi1zhu1的权威对英国南部的一块草坪上的zhi1zhu1作了一次统计。	One authority on spiders made a census of the spiders in a grass field in the south of England
须	这些轮子xu1同速转动.	The wheels must synchronize as they revolve.
东北	纳闽岛马来西亚婆罗洲dong1bei3海岸的一座岛屿。有一段时期曾为英国的直辖殖民地（1848年以后），1963年成为马来西亚的一部分	An island of Malaysia off the northeast coast of Borneo. At one time a British crown colony(after1848), it became part of Malaysia in1963.
半天	我们（各处）找了ban4tian1, 却找不到那本书.	We searched (around) for hours, but couldn't find the book.
生涯	摩西率领以色列人脱离在埃及的奴隶sheng1ya2。	Moses led the Israelites out of their bondage in Egypt.
幻觉	吸毒成瘾的人常常产生huan4jue2.	Drug addicts often hallucinate.
会见	我被带到後台去hui4jian4演员.	I was taken backstage to meet the actors.
电影院	这部电影已在dian4ying3yuan4及电视上放映.	The film has been screened in the cinema and on TV.
鸡肉	他为我切了几块很好的ji1rou4。	He carved me some very nice pieces of chicken.
毫无疑问	我可以hao2wu2 yi2wen4地得出结论他在说谎。	I can draw the conclusion without question that he is lying.
睡衣	那家商店里没什么可买的。那里没有衬衫，没有背心，没有牛仔裤，也没有shui4yi1。	There was nothing to buy in the store. There were no shirts, no vests, no jeans, and no pajamas.
定位	要乘飞机必须提前ding4wei4子。	To ride in an aeroplane you have to book in advance.
丢脸	如果老师连如此简单的问题都不能回答, 他会在学生面前diu1lian3的。	If a teacher can't answer this simple question, he'll lose face with his class.
相识	由潦草的记录而形成的文章；由长期xiang1shi2而产生的信任	An article that grew out of a few scribbled notes; trust that grew out of long acquaintance.
威士忌	你想喝杯麦芽wei1shi4ji4吗？	Would you like a cup of malt whisky?
老朋友	我今天在城里遇到了一位lao3peng2you5呢！	I met with an old friend in the town today!
基本上	分析家说，通过影艺公司向哈考特提出的优厚条件似乎颇有成功的希望，并应可解除这家困难重重的出版商的庞大债务负荷，而使ji1ben3shang5健全的营业得到生机。	A sweetened offer for Harcourt by General Cinema appears to have a good chance of success, analysts said, and should give the troubled publisher a new lease on life by freeing its basically sound businesses from the burden of overwhelming debt.
软弱	怕这怕那的人是ruan3ruo4的人。	A fearful person is a weak person.
通道	事情到了两群人马各坐在教堂里相对的两边，隔着tong1dao4怒目相视的地步。	Things reached the point where the two groups sat on opposite sides of the church, glaring across the aisle.
视觉	美丽的美丽的，尤指对shi4jue2	Beautiful, especially to the sight.
有用	也许这本书会对你的研究you3yong4处。	Perhaps this book will prove to be of some use to you in your studies.
虫子	这狗长chong2zi5。	The dog has worms.
苏格兰	联合王国包括英格兰、 威尔士、 Su1ge2lan2、 北爱尔兰.	The United Kingdom takes in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
胡萝卜	你应该吃hu2luo2bo5、芹菜和菠菜这类的蔬菜。	You should eat such vegetables as carrot, celery and spinach.
交谈	我们正jiao1tan2时, 线路被切断了.	We were cut off in the middle of our conversation.
饿死	为抢救那些即将e4si3的人而分秒必争。	It was a race against time to stop people dying from starvation.
出名	她通过与几位诗人的交往而chu1ming2了.	She became famous through her association with several poets.
触	他尽力chu4到了球.	He managed to get a touch to the ball.
靴子	我的xue1zi5上要是有泥, 一进屋爸爸就骂（我）.	If I walk in with muddy boots, Dad always scolds (me).
古老	这件gu3lao3的家具是1700年制造的。	The antique furniture was made in 1700.
想像	在看过建筑师的设计图后。他很容易xiang3xiang4出房子完工时的模样。	After looking at the architect's plans, it was easy for him to see the completed house in his mind's eye.
腰带	这yao1dai4是在前面打结还是在後面？	Does this sash tie in front or at the back?
吸烟	请勿在本店xi1yan1以利健康.	In the interests of hygiene, please do not smoke in this shop.
肮脏	我们一见到那旅店昏暗ang1zang1, 心里就很不痛快.	Our first sight of the dingy little hotel did not inspire us with much confidence/inspire much confidence in us.
债	他逃之夭夭，留下他妻子为他的赌zhai4发愁。	He took a powder and left his wife to worry about his gambling debts.
初中	他正在上chu1zhong1。	He is studying at a junior middle school.
行程	大雨耽搁了我们的xing2cheng2。	The heavy rain delayed our journey.
我国	wo3guo2的对外贸易近年来已有极大发展.	Our foreign trade has expanded greatly in recent years.
求助	你与其要他减价还不如qiu2zhu4于一棵树。	You might as well ask the tree for help as request him to reduce the price.
罪名	囚犯对被控zui4ming2再三否认。	The prisoner repeated denials of the charges against him.
埃及	她将其全部积蓄都花在了去Ai1ji2有这趟旅行上了。	She spend all her savings on a trip to Egypt.
热水	别把re4shui3倒进玻璃杯里，不然它会炸的。	Don't pour hot water into the glass or it will crack.
沉	船翻身chen2了下去。	The ship rolled over and sank.
模拟	军事训练演习以一场mo2ni3战结束。	The army training exercises ended with a mock battle.
紧紧	她jin3jin3拥抱著她的母亲。	She gave her mother an affectionate hug.
磨	我已mo2过这把斧子。	I have milled this axe.
每年	根据你的合同，你mei3 nian2有十五天的带薪假期。	According to your contract, you get 15 days' paid holiday a year.
扔掉	他吃掉了李子，并reng1diao4了果核。	He ate the plum, and threw the core away.
大胆	老人们为电影和小说的da4dan3感到震惊。	The old people is shocked by the new freedom in movies and novels.
近期	jin4qi1内的情况很清楚, 但很难说以後如何.	The immediate future is clear, but it's hard to tell what lies beyond.
亲眼	在从前贫瘠荒芜的土地上，翠绿的稻秧茁壮成长。人们成群结队前来qin1yan3观看这个奇迹。	People flocked to see for themselves the marvel of green paddy flourishing on the once barren desert land.
走出	现在是休息时间, 学生们一个接一个zou3chu1教室。	It was the time of break and students came out of classroom one after another.
街区	着火的房子的冒出的烟在几个jie1qu1外都能看到。	The smoke of the burning house could be seen many blocks away.
死人	既然si3ren2占多数，我们在si3ren2之中比在生人之中有更多的朋友，就是理所当然的事情。	The dead being the majority, it is natural that we should have more friends among them than among the living.
穿着	他真有胆量，chuan1zhuo2那身衣服去工作。	He's got a nerve, going to work dressed like that.
欢呼	这一项宣布引起了热烈的huan1hu1声.	The announcement was greeted with much hilarity and mirth.
同行	她是tong2hang2的光荣.	She is an honour to her profession.
奶	她在一年后才把孩子的nai3断掉。	She had her baby weaned a year later.
停电	我正在做晚饭时ting2dian4了。	While I was cooking supper the electricity went off.
姓名	这香烟盒上刻著他xing4ming2的首字母.	The cigarette case was engraved with his initials.
喜庆	xi3qing4时节，欢庆盛会欢庆活动的时节或盛会	A season or an occasion of joyful celebration.
休假	别拖延! 今天就定下你xiu1jia4的日子!	Don't delay! Book your holiday today!
深入	让我们shen1ru4考虑一下这件事。	Let's pore deeply on the matter.
伊拉克	遭遇Yi1la1ke4上校的最初片刻，目睹他令士兵在我们面前劫掠我们车里的物件，我们的生命似乎危在旦夕。	For the first few moments, confronted by an Iraqi colonel who had his soldiers loot our vehicle in front of us, it seemed as if our lives hung by a precarious thread.
星期一	数日之内我们将有三笔大额进款，所以我们最迟于下xing1qi1yi1以前定给贵方汇款。	As we expect to receive three large sum within the next few day, we will send you some money by monday at the latest.
赛季	我队今年sai4ji4赢五场而未输过.	Our team has had five wins and no losses this season.
缝	她把三幅布feng4接在一起。	She joined the three widths of cloth.
笔记	我用电话旁的一根铅bi3ji4下了他的电话号码。	I noted down his telephone number with a pencil near the telephone.
种种	这使我们遇到zhong3zhong3困难。	That got us into all kinds of difficulties.
终结	绝经期，更年期生命的一个阶段，特征是标志妇女生殖能力zhong1jie2及以停经完成为结束的生理、心理变化	A period of life characterized by physiological and psychic change that marks the end of the reproductive capacity of women and terminates with the completion of menopause.
远方	我们驶抵公海, 海岸似乎退到了yuan3fang1.	We reached the open sea and the coast receded into the distance.
乏味	那音乐他演奏得未免太fa2wei4了.	His interpretation of the music was rather too literal.
倒下	这棵树向那边dao3xia4就会把那所房子压坏。	If the tree fall that way, it will destroy the house.
轿车	约翰拥有一部jiao4che1，我也有。	John owns a car and so do I.
警察局	恐怖分子用炸弹袭击了jing3cha2ju2报复逮捕行动.	Terrorists bombed the police station in revenge for the arrests.
早日	我们希望zao3ri4收到你的支票.	We trust to receive a cheque at your earliest convenience.
猎人	lie4ren2守候着兔子从洞里出来。	The hunter watched for the hare to come out of the burrow.
外科	医院进口了一些wai4ke1器械。	The hospital imported some surgical instruments.
坏蛋	那个huai4dan4已被收买。	That scoundrel has been got at.
参议员	这位can1yi4yuan2投票支持总统。	The senator voted to support the president.
马克	ma3ke4是个不听话的孩子, 我看他们现在对他的培养方面做得不错.	Mark's a difficult child and I think they're making a good job of bringing him up.
垒	替捕的一lei3安打；第二lei3替补偷击	A pinch single; a pinch steal of second base.
忏悔	chan4hui3可能对灵魂有好处，但对声誉则有损无益。	Confession may be good for the soul but they are bad for the reputation.
心事	苏珊xin1shi5重重。	Susan is in a thoughtful mood.
葡萄酒	今年的pu2tao2jiu3产量前景不佳.	The prospects for this year's wine harvest are poor.
什么的	我是唯一明了老师真正在说shen2me5de5人。	I am the only one to pick up on what the teacher is really saying.
发给	为了收集数据我们fa1gei3他们一些调查表。	We gave them some questionnaires for collecting data.
飞船	fei1chuan2驾驶员，气球驾驶员轻于空气的航空器，例如气球的驾驶员或导航员	A pilot or navigator of a lighter-than-air craft, such as a balloon.
收回	反对党的下院议员强迫部长shou1hui2在他的声明。	The opposition mps force the minister to withdraw his statement.
外国	学杂费昂贵，wai4guo2留学生负担不起。	The tuition and fees fall heavy on the international students.
老天爷	lao3tian1ye2好像成心捉弄人，很多人前来看比赛却偏偏下起瓢泼大雨。	Ironically, most people came to watch the match on the day it poured with rain.
誓言	破坏，违犯，不履行破坏或违反一法规、法律责任或一shi4yan2	A violation or infraction, as of a law, a legal obligation, or a promise.
废	这电池是fei4的.	This battery is a dud.
面部	她mian4bu4化妆很浓.	She daubed her face with thick make-up.
部长	bu4zhang3就局势的最新发展作了另一番解释。	The minister has put a different gloss on recent developments.
每周	我们现在邮购业务是mei3 zhou1期1，200美元。	Our mail orders are now running at$1, 200 a week.
人数	他相信，教育不应该是某一限定ren2 shu4的特权。	It is his belief that education should not be the privilege of a limited number of people.
紫色	那个女孩喜欢穿zi3se4的衣服。	That girl likes to wear purple dresses.
巴西	Ba1xi1出口大量咖啡。	Brazil exports a lot of coffee.
办事	我们必须使承包者遵照他们的预算ban4shi4（不许超支）.	We must hold the contractors to (ie not allow them to exceed) their estimates.
上床	没什么事可做，我还是shang4chuang2睡觉好了。	There is nothing to do, so I may as well go to bed.
味儿	他们闻到做菜的wei4r5, 知道眼看要吃饭了.	The smell of cooking told them there was a meal in the offing.
出售	我们chu1shou4的产品是各式各样的。	The products we sell are many and various.
逃离	在内战期间成千上万的人tao2li2了这个国家.	During the civil war thousands of people fled the country.
凑	他并没有准备讲话, 但在会议结束时现cou4了几句.	He hadn't prepared a speech but he managed to string together a few remarks at the end of the meeting.
失控	shi1kong4的通货膨胀似乎阻止这一趋势的发展。	The runaway inflation would seem to put the brakes on such a trend.
水晶	基质，脉石嵌有化石或shui3jing1的固体物质	The solid matter in which a fossil or crystal is embedded.
柔软	她的皮肤仍然十分rou2ruan3、 光滑.	Her skin is still as smooth as a baby's bottom.
当天	这种新邮票是我在发行dang4tian1买到的。	I bought the new stamp the day of its issue.
何处	她追问那小孩让其说出把包放到了he2chu4。	She pumped out of the little boy where he had put the bag.
昏	他朝那特务的下巴一拳打去，把他打hun1在地。	He hit the secret agent on the jaw and completely laid him out.
房地产	他在英格兰西南部有一处fang2di4chan3.	He has a property in the West Country.
外出	天在下雪，所以我无法wai4chu1。	It was snowing, and so I could not go out.
珠宝	警察找回了被盗的zhu1bao3。	The police recovered the stolen jewellery.
用品	难民苦於缺少食物和医药yong4pin3.	The refugees are suffering for want of food and medical supplies.
魔力	mo2li4，神力被认为是寓于某个人或某件神圣的物件中的超自然力量	A supernatural force believed to dwell in a person or sacred object.
海上	他们的船在浪急风高的hai3shang4危险地航行着。	Their ship was sailing dangerously in the tempestuous sea.
西班牙语	除了英语以外, 我们还学俄语及Xi1ban1ya2yu3。	Apart from English, we study Russian and Spanish.
抢走	劫匪把钞票一把qiang3zou3了.	The robber swooped up the banknotes.
起点	循环，周而复始结束在其qi3dian3或持续重复其自身的系列或过程；循环	A series or process that finishes at its starting point or continuously repeats itself; a cycle.
鼓	我们听见敲gu3的声音.	We heard the beat of a drum.
墓	掘mu4者挖掘坟mu4的人	One that digs graves.
违法	夜晚行车不开亮头灯是wei2fa3的.	Driving without headlights at night is illegal.
有着	这座红色的建筑物you3zhe5丰富的历史经历。	This red building is steeped in history.
鹿	lu4的斑点是黄色的。	The dapple of the deer is yellow.
内疚	他的nei4jiu4使得他把一切和盘托出。	His guilty conscience forced him to make a clean breast of everything.
吃掉	孩子们早已chi1diao4不少食物.	Already the children had made considerable inroads on the food.
怪人	他是个十足的guai4ren2!	He's quite an individual!
尽可能	把发生的事情jin3ke3neng2仔细地回忆一下.	Try to recall (to mind) exactly what happened.
暂停	审讯zan4ting2一星期[下星期继续进行].	The trial was adjourned for a week/until the following week.
大多	江河da4duo1流入海洋.	Most rivers flow into the sea.
会面	他提前到达hui4mian4地点。	He arrived at the meeting place beforehand.
营地	ying2di4有充足的食品供应。	The camp has a plentiful supply of food.
上下	那幅画shang4-xia4颠倒了.	That picture is upside-down.
单词	微小表微小的后缀、dan1ci2或名称	A diminutive suffix, word, or name.
应得	他侵吞了其他人ying1de2的钱。	He screwed the others out of their share of the money.
歌唱	她的ge1chang4得已是炉火纯青.	Her singing was perfection.
赛车	汽车sai4che1呼啸而过.	Racing cars screamed past.
结尾	影片jie2wei3的暴力场面太过分了.	The film's violent ending is completely over the top.
使得	那些难看的家具shi3de5他的家看上去一团糟糕。	His house looks terrible with those pieces of ugly furniture.
言语	yan2yu5是他那一行必不可少的工具。	Words are the tools of his trade.
瓦	合同中规定屋顶要用红wa3而不用石板wa3.	The contract specifies red tiles, not slates, for the roof.
满怀	他对我的成功man3huai2羡慕。	He was filled with envy at my success.
契约	婚姻首先是一种qi4yue1，它必须以公正为制约。	Marriage is, first of all, a contract which must be governed by justice.
万岁	wan4sui4日本人在进攻时的呐喊或爱国的欢呼；	A Japanese battle cry or patriotic cheer.
前方	路的qian2fang1有一个公共汽车站.	There's a bus-stop down the road
评论家	她是位眼光敏锐的艺术ping2lun4jia1.	She is a very discerning art critic.
粘	这种胶水zhan1得很结实.	This glue makes a good firm bond.
发作	根据解剖结果，此人死于心脏病fa1zuo4。	According to the result of the dissection, the man died from heart attack.
箭	他们把jian4射向敌人。	They discharged their arrows at the enemy.
冰冷	一些强壮的人在bing1leng3的水中游泳。	A few hardy people swam in the icy water.
大便	他每天da4bian4两次。	He goes to stool twice a day.
爬上	公共汽车艰难地pa2shang4陡峭的山岗.	The bus toiled up the steep hill.
订票	这家旅馆为旅客提供ding4 piao4服务。	The hotel provides a reservation of tickets for its residents.
备用	他们在苏格兰有一村舍, 在伦敦有一所房子, 在巴黎还有一套bei4yong4公寓.	They own a cottage in Scotland and a house in London as well as a pied-a-terre in Paris.
行事	他要我们谨慎xing2shi4。	He told us to proceed with caution.
球场	你喜欢草地qiu2chang3还是硬地qiu2chang3？	Do you prefer grass or hard courts?
指挥官	领袖或zhi3hui1guan1；首领	A leader or commander; a chief.
简介	该报每周刊登一篇关於一个优秀运动员的jian3jie4。	The newspaper publish a profile of a leading sportsman every week.
商人	他是一个不诚实的shang1ren2。	He is a dishonest merchant.
合伙人	这家商行为两名he2huo3ren2所拥有。	The business is owned by two partners.
困境	他企图藉赌博增加收入，却陷入了更深的kun4jing4。	He tried to increase his income by gambling only to plunge more deeply into the mire.
相片	如果你照完一张xiang4pian4后不往前进一张，底片就是会曝光。	If you don't wind on after taking a picture, your negative will be double-exposed.
念头	当他得知对手是谁时，他立即断了想获取权力的nian4tou5。	His idea of winning power quickly toppled down when he learned who his opponent was.
台北	这儿的气候和Tai2bei3非常相似。	The climate here is like that of Taipei.
人选	他正在寻找未来的妻子，但还没有找到理想ren2xuan3。	He is looking for a wife but he hasn't found his ideal mate.
洋	【谚】涓滴之水汇成yang2。	Little drops of water make the mighty ocean.
西部	这些火车头在1940年以前一直在大xi1bu4铁路线上运行.	These locomotives ran on Great Western Railway metals until 1940.
唇	她举起一根手指放在chun2边，示意肃静。	She raised her finger to her lips as a sign for silence.
拿出	马赫先生从抽屉里na2chu1一条链子，链子一头挂着一串钥匙。	From the drawer Mr Mach took out a chain, with a bunch of keys dangling at its end.
维多利亚	一所现代化的监狱取代了那所Wei2duo1li4ya4时代的监狱.	A modern prison has replaced the Victorian one.
秒钟	低音的与一相对少量的每miao3zhong1音波周期相对应的低音的	Having a pitch corresponding to a relatively small number of sound-wave cycles per second.
雄	这种xiong2鸟在与雌鸟交尾以前要跳一种交欢舞.	The male bird performs a sort of mating dance before copulating with the female.
更年期	伴随着geng1nian2qi1的内分泌变化使很多妇女的情绪受到影响。	A lot of women are affected emotionally by the hormonal changes that accompany the change of life.
上路	休息了一会儿之后，他们又背起背包shang4lu4了。	After a short rest, they took up their knapsacks and went on.
无罪	根据英国法律，一个人未经证实有罪仍视为wu2zui4。	In English law a man is accounted innocent until he is proved guilty.
指出	你能把那一点zhi3chu1来，我感到很高兴。	I'm glad you raised that point.
处处	他chu4chu4与我作对.	He crosses me in everything.
返回	他们渴望fan3hui2家园.	They were pining to return home.
正面	这块布哪一面是zheng4mian4?	Which is the right side of the cloth (ie the one intended to be seen)?
火灾	在天气干燥时把点燃的香烟扔进树林可能会引起huo3zai1。	A cigarette thrown into the woods in dry weather may start a fire.
击中	这只巨大的军舰被一枚自动寻的导弹ji1zhong4。	The huge ship was sunk by a homing missile.
振作	zhen4zuo4起来，面对冲击！	Brace yourself for a shock!
心意	不要做违背他xin1yi4的事。	Don't do anything that should go against his will.
逃脱	他们严密监视他，惟恐他会tao2tuo1。	They watched him closely in case he should escape.
带子	你的雨衣系上dai4zi5更好看.	Your mackintosh looks better belted.
馅饼	她吃了两客分量很足的xian4bing3。	She had two generous helpings of pie.
改造	他是个经过gai3zao4的罪犯，然而仍有可能故态复萌。	He's a reformed criminal who may yet backslide.
名义	我愿意以朋友的ming2yi4给你一些建议。	I would like to give you some advice in the name of a friend.
后退	在我方的沉重打击下，敌军被迫hou4tui4。	The enemy was forced to get back under our massive blows.
剧院	边座，楼座ju4yuan4或大礼堂中为了增加座席，而从后面或侧墙突出的具有倾斜地板的上面部分	An upper section, often with a sloping floor, projecting from the rear or side walls of a theater or an auditorium to provide additional seating.
遭到	那计画zao1dao4狼狈不堪的失败。	The plan was a miserable failure.
山顶	当我到达shan1ding3的时候，我有一种巨大的成就感。	I felt a great sense of achievement when I reached the top of the mountain.
试用	他买了那个新产品想shi4yong4一下。	He bought the new product to give it a trial.
夏威夷	在去Xia4wei1yi2的旅途中, 我们都很开心。	On the trip to Hawaii, we were all in high spirits.
食用	这种肉已宣布不适宜人们shi2yong4.	The meat was condemned as unfit for human consumption.
粉	蜜蜂采蜜时常使花受fen3.	Flowers are often fertilized by bees as they gather nectar.
时装	那位漂亮的女孩是一位shi2zhuang1模特儿。	That beautiful girl is a fashion model.
传来	听到收音机里chuan2lai2的轻快乐曲，这个病人笑了。	The patient smiled when he heard the sprightly music on the radio.
大火	da4huo3扑灭之後, 工厂只剩下个空架子了.	Only the shell of the factory was left after the fire had been put out.
亲吻	他们最後相互qin1wen3而分离.	They exchanged a final kiss before parting.
星期天	我上xing1qi1tian1打电话到你办公室去, 但他们说你不值班。	I called your office last Sunday but they said you were off duty.
上台	新政府shang4tai2后，我们有几个计划被砍掉了。	Several of our plans got the axe when the new government came in.
海底	这些生物生活在太平洋的hai3di3。	These creatures live in the depth of the Pacific Ocean.
大腿	膝处于坐姿的人从腰到膝盖的da4tui3正面部位	The front area from the waist to the knees of a seated person.
挂念	他非常gua4nian4他有病的母亲。	He is full of concern about his sick mother.
民众	我们绝不能忘记min2zhong4.	We must not forget about the grass roots.
幕后	他呆在mu4hou4为了避开公众的注意。	He stayed in the background to escape from the public attention.
铁路	修筑一条tie3lu4要花费许多劳动力。	It takes a lot of labor to build a railway.
嫌疑犯	警方正在审讯两个xian2yi2fan4.	The police are interrogating two suspects.
留意	我会liu2yi4的。	I'll keep my eyes open.
同伴	不要与坏tong2ban4往来。	Don't associate with bad companions.
修好	把我的电视机xiu1hao3要花去我10000日元。	It cost me ten thousand yen to have my television set repaired.
勇士	勇敢的，好战的具有战士、yong3shi4特征的或适宜于yong3shi4的	Characteristic of or befitting a warrior.
一模一样	只因为我的新书包和他的yi1mu2-yi1yang4，他就说我学他的样。	He called me a copycat just because my schoolbag looks like his.
翻译	就fan1yi4训练而言我认为这是一本无出其右的好书。	This is a book, which I dare say, is unequaled as far as translation practice is concerned.
不满	他从来没有对计划表示bu4man3。	He has never dissatisfied with this plan.
树林	我提醒他们shu4lin2里可能有蛇。	I warned them that there might be snakes in the woods.
暑假	我好想明年shu3jia4去一趟欧洲。	I feel like going to Europe for a visit next summer vacation.
海边	我们在hai3bian1度过了愉快的时光。	We had a glorious time at the seaside.
月份	十二月是一年的最後一个yue4fen4.	December is the last month of the year.
升起	直到太阳从东方sheng1qi3，我们才出发。	We did not start until the sun rose in the east.
时时刻刻	你应当shi2shi2-ke4ke4注意礼节.	It behoves you (ie You ought) to be courteous at all times.
窗口	对不起, 你只能在八号chuang1kou3买旅行支票。	I am sorry, you can only buy traveler's check at Window Eight.
橘子	桌上有两只苹果和一只ju2zi5。	There are two apples and an orange on the table.
烟火	庆祝会的高潮是燃放yan1huo3。	The climax of the celebration was a firework display.
下巴	他的xia4ba5凸出很多。	His chin juts out rather a lot.
目的地	生命可以被比作一次不知mu4di4di4的旅行。	Life can be likened to a journey with an unknown destination.
赚钱	男孩子大学毕业后开始zhuan4qian2时，便可独立生活了。	When a boy leaves college and begins to earn money he can live a life of independence.
做完	要不是我的工作没zuo4wan2, 我真想去。	I would like to go only that I haven't finished my work.
用力	她yong4li4咽了一下唾液, 转身面对那个控告她的人.	She swallowed hard, and turned to face her accuser.
知己	和朋友聊天是愉快的，而这种情形没有比和zhi1ji3的朋友聊天更为愉快。	It is pleasant to chat with friends, and with no chat is it more pleasant than with close friends.
奔跑	他拚命ben1pao3去追赶公共汽车.	He ran like fury to catch the bus.
卡片	这张ka3pian4正好能装进那个信封里.	This card just fits nicely into that envelope.
南瓜	他妻子做了一些nan2gua1馅饼作晚餐。	His wife made some pumpkin pies for supper.
流星	据说如果你在看见liu2xing1时许个愿，愿望就会实现。	It is said that if you make a wish when you see a meteor in the sky your wish will be realized.
青蛙	qing1wa1和蝾螈都是两栖动物.	Frogs and newts are amphibians.
提名	某女士已被ti2ming2任董事职务[任命为新董事].	Ms X has been named for the directorship/named as the new director.
蘑菇	有些mo2gu5有毒。	Some mushrooms are poisonous.
高贵	她出身gao1gui4.	She was a lady by birth.
英寸	去年的雨量是多少ying1cun4？	How many inches of rain fell last year?
诺言	政府已经履行了他的全部选举nuo4yan2了吗？	Has the government redeemed all its election promise?
装作	他zhuang1zuo4若无其事, 藉以掩饰内心的不安.	He conceals his worries behind a mask of nonchalance.
穿上	冬天的时候，我们不得不chuan1shang5温暖的衣服。	We have to put on warm clothing in winter.
风向	feng1xiang4的突然转变预示着暴风雨即将来临。	A sudden shift in the wind warned of the coming storm.
伤痕	它于桌面上留下shang1hen2。	It made a scar on the table.
脸色	这孩子看上去lian3se4不好，一副有病的样子。	The child looked pale and wan.
才华	这些信流露出她的教养和cai2hua2。	These letters revealed her wit and civilization.
活儿	请站到一边，你的影子计划遮住了他的huo2r5。	Please stand to one side, you're casting your shadow over his work.
金色	落日把天空染成jin1se4。	The setting sun gilds the sky.
服用	旅客须知要fu2yong4预防疟疾药.	Travellers are reminded that malaria tablets are advisable.
清白	一个人未被证明有罪前，被视为是qing1bai2的。	A man is accounted innocent until he is proven guilty.
签字	他伪造父亲的qian1zi4.	He faked his father's signature.
头部	他跌了一跤, tou2bu4撞在栏杆上了.	He tripped and bashed his head against the railing.
发火	没必要为这件小事fa1huo3!	There's no need to get in a pet about it!
右手	大多数人的you4shou3是优势手。	The right hand is dominant in most people.
平民	他辞去军职而从事ping2min2工作.	He resigned his commission to take up a civilian job.
有力	她的劝说很you3li4, 我完全接受.	Defeated by her powers of persuasion, I accepted.
匆匆	她cong1cong1忙忙向电报局去了。	She went to the telegraph office in a hurry.
多数	冬天duo1shu4虫子作茧。	Most worms cocoon in winter.
海报	她把hai3bao4贴在墙上了.	She pasted posters onto the wall.
前天	今天要是星期三，qian2tian1就是星期一。	If today is Wednesday, the day before yesterday is Monday.
香烟	他坐在沙发上, 点燃了一只xiang1yan1。	He had his seat in the sofa and lit a cigar.
明日	新法令ming2ri4起实行.	The new law takes effect from tomorrow.
决不	jue2bu4只是瞎子才犯这样愚蠢的错误。	It is not only blind men who make such stupid mistakes.
不利	另一候选人的主要bu4li4条件是她的年龄问题.	The other candidate's main disadvantage is her age.
差劲	cha4jin4……我刚刚开始认为他有潜力，他却丢下一切转到别处工作了。	Darn...just when I start think he have potential, he just drop everything and took another job elsewhere.
背包	她把帆布bei1bao1转到身後.	She swung the rucksack (up) onto her back.
亚当	假使Ya4dang1重返人间，他会懂得的恐怕只有那些老掉牙的笑话了。	If Adam came on earth again the only thing he will recognize will be the old joke.
沿着	yan2zhe5这条河生长的是高大的棕树。	Growing along the river are tall palm trees.
花样	小钉板一种用木钉可塞入的孔做成hua1yang4的用来玩游戏的板	A board perforated with a pattern of holes into which pegs can be fitted for playing certain games.
芯片	生物xin1pian4用有机分子而非硅或锗制造的计算机xin1pian4	A computer chip made from organic molecules rather than silicon or germanium.
飞行员	由於发动机突然出现故障, fei1xing2yuan2不得不（在爱尔兰海上）紧急降落.	A sudden engine failure forced the pilot to ditch (in the Irish Sea).
致敬	他们肃立向她zhi4jing4.	They stood in silence as a mark of honour to her.
吞	食物tun1下去之前先要细细咀嚼。	You must chew your food well before you swallow it.
麽	什mo2也不能引诱我参军.	Nothing would tempt me to join the army.
授权	对于非shou4quan2用户其意义是隐蔽的数据。	Data whose meaning is concealed from unauthorized users.
讲述	她在协会中借助图片jiang3shu4其印度之行.	She gave the society an illustrated talk on her travels in India.
照相	摄影用超压强烈溢光灯，zhao4xiang4泛光灯用于摄影照明的、可产生持续明亮光线的可再次使用的电灯	A reusable electric lamp that produces a bright continuous light for photographic illumination.
五十	他wu3shi2多岁; 嗯, 确切地说是wu3shi2六岁.	He's in his mid-fifties; well, fifty-six to be exact (ie more accurately).
展	峡谷zhan3现在我们的脚下.	The valley lay at our feet.
鸟儿	她很高兴地听着窗外niao3r5的鸣叫声。	She was delighted to hear the twitter of the birds somewhere near her window.
哈里	没多久，Ha1li3就跟在我们背后跑来了。	Before long Harry came running behind us.
荣耀	光荣的，rong2yao4的；辉煌的	Having or deserving glory; famous.
跌倒	他die1dao3了，膝盖重重撞了一下。	He fell and banged his knee.
精神病	这一定很小，目前jing1shen2bing4的诊断方法还发现不了。	It must be so small that present methods of psychiatric diagnosis cannot find it.
内地	移居到发展中地区的人不久就迁徙到nei4di4了.	Settlers soon spread inland.
清洗	洗涤qing1xi3的过程；qing1xi3	The process of washing; a cleansing.
住院	在孩子们zhu4yuan4期间, 有个私人教师给他们上课.	There is a tutor to teach the children while they're in hospital.
动物园	上星期你在dong4wu4yuan2里看到大象了吗？	Did you see any elephants in the zoo last week?
十三	他连自己的五分钟时间都不愿拿出，证明他对这一个解决问题的方法不感兴趣，与前一段统计中不赞成这一同样用法的比率百分之九shi2san1相比，没有什么大的差别	His unwillingness to give five minutes of his time proves that he is disinterested in finding a solution to the problem, a proportion that is not significantly different from the93 percent who disapproved of the same usage in an earlier survey.
宝石	那商人对一些bao3shi2垂涎欲滴.	The dealer was slavering over some precious stones.
应当	我相信他是个我们ying1dang1尊敬的人。	He is a man whom I believe we should respect.
傲慢	我不能再忍受他那ao4man4无礼的行为了。	I could not endure the insolence of his behaviour.
英镑	你总共要花7.50ying1bang4.	That will cost you 7.50 in total.
手枪	他用shou3qiang1瞄准我。	He covered me with a pistol.
领带	宽阔的道路；宽大的ling3dai4	A wide road; a wide necktie.
瑞士	他们走私Rui4shi4表进中国。	They smuggled Swiss watches into China.
四十	他统治了这个国家si4shi2年。	He reigned over the country for forty years.
骗局	结果证明一切都是场pian4ju2。	It proved that everything was a mare's nest.
的士	汽车路线到此为止了, 你得叫辆di2shi4。	The bus route goes as far as that, so you'll need to take a taxi.
计算机	所有的ji4suan4ji1都使用二进制吗？	Do all computers use binary system?
日落	ri4luo4时我们抵达了港口.	We reached (the) harbour at sunset.
烈日	lie4ri4照射著这个地方.	The hot sun shone down on the scene.
货物	卡车转弯时车上huo4wu4滑离了原位.	The lorry turned and its load slipped.
被迫	在丛林中, 他们为了生存bei4po4采取极端行动.	In the jungle, they were driven to extremes in order to survive.
含量	往炖煮的食物上加一匙麦麸，以增加其纤维han2liang4。	Sprinkle a spoonful of bran onto the stew to increase the fibre content.
确	她对成功已que4有把握。	Success is within her grasp.
白白	我愿意bai2bai2地将它给你。	I will give it to you for nothing.
秋天	九月的天气确实像qiu1tian1了。	The weather in September was positively autumnal.
照看	一方面我必须工作；另一方面我有许多来宾要zhao4kan4。	On one hand I have to work; on the other hand I have many visitors to see.
囚犯	有两个qiu2fan4设计欺骗了警卫而逃走了.	Two prisoners outwitted their guards and got away.
蚊子	wen2zi5会吸我们的血。更糟的是，它会把毒注入我们的体内。	The mosquito will suck our blood. What's even worse, it will inject poison into our bodies.
血管	注射为了医学目的通过xue4guan3将一种溶液注入体内	Introduction of a solution into the body through a vein for therapeutic purposes.
热量	碳水化合物给我们的身体提供re4liang4和能量。	Carbohydrates provide our bodies with heat and energy.
丑闻	这件chou3wen2可以说明这个党在整体上不健康.	This scandal will reflect badly on the Party as a whole.
厨师	一只生日蛋糕将被chu2shi1放到桌子上。	A birthday cake is going to be brought to the table by the cook.
大雨	该国南部da4yu3滂沱而北部却滴雨未落.	The heavy rain missed the north of the country altogether, and the south copped the lot.
离别	我们li2bie2时我如何忍得住眼泪呢？	How shall I withhold from tears when we part?
香味	你能闻到玫瑰花的xiang1wei4吗？	Can you smell the perfume of the roses?
夹克	先生，你要不要试穿一下这件jia1ke4衫，看看尺寸是否合适？	Would you like to try this jacket on for size, sir?
请客	我以为他要qing3ke4，但结果是各付各的。	I think he was treating, but it turned out to be a Dutch treat.
村庄	他们旅游到了一个被山影笼罩的cun1zhuang1。	They traveled to a village overshadowed by mountains.
损伤	身体的sun3shang1，发炎或sun3shang1	A bodily injury, irritation, or trauma.
追捕	警方在跟踪zhui1bu3他。	The police are hot on his trail.
荷兰	在He2lan2，人们拦海造田已开垦了成千上万公顷的土地并将它们变成可耕地和牧场。	In Holland thousands of hectares have been reclaimed from the sea and turned over to arable land and pasture.
便秘	许多医生推荐含有丰富食物纤维的天然食物，因为它有助于防止bian4mi4，以取代万不得已而使用的泻药。原因显而易见－治病总是不如防病。	Many doctors prefer a natural food, rich in dietary fibre, which will help you to avoid constipation, rather than having to resort to purgatives. The reason is obvious-prevention is always better than cure.
基督	Ji1du1降世拯救我们摆脱罪恶.	Jesus Christ came into the world to save us from our sins.
自称	他zi4cheng1是诗人。	He professed himself to be a poet.
小屋	他住在一个舒适的xiao3wu1里。	He lives in a cosy little room.
太过	你tai4guo4分了！	You've gone too far!
流逝	随著时间的liu2shi4, 我的记忆力似乎越来越差.	As time goes by my memory seems to get worse.
隆	突然火车轰long2long2地驶入一个隧道，四周的一切都漆黑一团。	Suddenly the train roared into a tunnel and everything was black.
不准	上课时bu4zhun3戴帽子。	Don't keep your hat on in class.
引爆	这颗炸弹是遥控yin3bao4的。	The bomb was exploded by remote control.
警卫	他冒充jing3wei4逃走了.	He escaped by passing himself off as a guard.
救援	船遇难後因天气恶劣jiu4yuan2工作十分困难.	Salvage of the wreck was made difficult by bad weather.
呈	满月cheng2圆形。	The full moon has a circular form.
转眼	群众情绪zhuan3yan3就能发生变化.	The mood of the crowd can change in the twinkling of an eye.
收费	律师的生意是：质问一切事情、得不出任何结果、而按钟点shou1fei4说话。	It is the trade of lawyers to question everything, yield nothing, and to talk by the hour.
减轻	我们做些什么才能jian3qing1她的烦恼呢？	What can we do to lessen her vexation?
永久	我并不是yong3jiu3雇员，而是根据定期合同在此工作的。	I'm not a permanent employee; I'm working here on a fixed-term contract.
当真	别拿她的话dang4zhen1--她不过是逗弄人.	Don't take what she said seriously she was only teasing.
不会	她父亲永bu4hui4同意她和你结婚。	Her father will never approve of her marriage to you.
海外	我们将汽车滞销归咎於hai3wai4需求量太低.	We blame poor overseas demand for the car's failure.
院子	她的马车是yuan4zi5里最漂亮的。	Her carriage was the most beautiful one in the yard.
预定	航天器的yu4ding4溅落时间为上午5时30分.	Splash-down is scheduled for 5.30 am.
音乐会	yin1yue4hui4後她徘徊不去, 希望能一见明星.	She lingered after the concert, hoping to meet the star.
私下	部长在公开发表言论时比他在si1xia4批评时的调子要缓和一点儿。	In his public statement the minister toned down his criticisms he had made in private.
寻常	她神秘地暗示著事非xun2chang2.	She hinted darkly at strange events.
心理学	我一直对xin1li3xue2感兴趣。	I am always interested in psychology.
所作所为	他不喜欢对他自己的suo3zuo4-suo3wei2作出解释。	He didn't relish the prospect of having to explain his behavior.
动人	dong4ren2的激起或能够激起强烈情感的；令人感动的	Inspiring or capable of inspiring strong emotion; moving.
直达	这列火车是否zhi2da2伦敦？	Does this train go right through to London?
剧场	这座ju4chang3一天演出两场。	The theater gives two performances a day.
深度	这条河河水的shen1du4是那条河河水shen1du4的一半。	The depth of water in this river is half that in that river.
雇员	他以前从未做过这种工作, 我不知道他是否能（与其他gu4yuan2）配合好.	He's never done this type of work before; I'm not sure how he'll fit in (with the other employees).
塑料	这些盘子是用一种su4liao4制造的.	A kind of plastic stuff is used to make the plates.
爱好者	流行歌曲的ai4hao4zhe3纷纷从四面八方向音乐会的举办地点聚集.	Pop fans are homing in on the concert site from miles around.
眨眼	她向我zha3yan3。	She winked at me.
躲避	我们没有地方duo3bi4这场风暴.	There was nowhere we could take cover (ie go for protection) from the storm.
棺材	在举行葬礼以前尸体被放在guan1cai5里。	The body was placed in bier before burial.
抑制	设法yi4zhi4你的怒火！	Try to contain your anger!
切断	小心别qie1duan4了手指头!	Mind you don't cut your fingers off!
声称	我不相信她sheng1cheng1同我们友好。	I don't believe her profession of friendship for us.
威廉	Wei1lian2姆斯先生热衷于打猎。	Mr. Williams goes in for hunting.
次数	他随著年龄的增长, 弹钢琴的ci4shu4越来越少了.	He played the piano less and less as he grew older.
转转	我的周末过得很无聊--只是在屋子里 zhuan4zhuan5或者看看电视.	My weekend was boring I just floated about (the house) or watched TV.
闪亮	星星在晴朗的夜空shan3liang4。	Stars are brilliant in the clear night sky.
专注	我很欣赏他对工作的极端zhuan1zhu4。	I really appreciate his complete absorption in his work.
关联	这两种学说之间没有什麽guan1lian2.	There is a distant connection between the two theories.
三角	san1jiao3形的san1jiao3之和等于180°。	The angles of a triangle total 180.
清单	他将他的名字写在qing1dan1上。	He wrote down his name on the list.
书店	他没有一次到shu1dian4而不买一些书。	He never went to the bookstore without buying some books.
灌	这条棍子guan4了铅增加了分量.	The stick had been weighted with lead.
猜测	这正如我所cai1ce4的.	It was just as I had conjectured.
游泳池	孩子们在you2yong3chi2里互相把对方按入水中。	The children ducked each other in the swimming pool.
随后	溶血（现象），血细胞溶解红血细胞的破坏或溶解，sui2hou4释放血红蛋白	The destruction or dissolution of red blood cells, with subsequent release of hemoglobin.
首席	shou3xi2书记官某些法院中的最高书记官	The principal clerk in certain courts of law.
机关	政府行使统治或管理职能的ji1guan1、职能部门或当局	The office, function, or authority of one who governs or of a governing body.
前后	qian2-hou4摇晃摇摆不定的动作或实例；不稳定的行动	The act or an instance of wobbling; unsteady motion.
星期三	开往上海的轮船xing1qi1san1启程。	The steamers for Shanghai leave on Wednesday.
烟雾	餐厅里吸烟的yan1wu4就没有地方躲得过去吗?	Is there no escape from the ubiquitous cigarette smoke in restaurants?
审讯	shen3xun4持续了一个星期.	The trial lasted a week.
取出	我无法把这颗螺丝钉从墙上qu3chu1。	I can't get this screw to come out of the wall.
游行	罢工者you2xing2通过市中心.	The strikers paraded through the city centre.
不明	现在改变方针是bu4ming2智的.	It would be unwise to change tack now.
军人	我们正处于严重危险之中，我们必须把jun1ren2动员起来。	Our country's in great danger; we must mobilize the army.
欢笑	垂柳迎风huan1xiao4。	Weeping willows laugh in the breeze.
圈子	你当然认识他喽？""""不大认识。他毕竟不属于我们这儿的老派正统的小quan1zi5。""	You know him, of course? "" ""Not to speak to. After all, he's hardly of our square little circle down here.""
祈求	他日夜qi2qiu2上帝赋予他虔敬的心。	He prayed to God night and day to endue him with the spirit of holiness.
罪行	人性厌恶这样的zui4xing2。	Human nature revolts at such a crime.
创伤	心理chuang1shang1；心理能量	Psychic trauma; psychic energy.
面孔	他渴望一见那些熟悉的老mian4kong3。	He yearned for a sight of the old, familiar faces.
全民	他已经激发了quan2min2的同情.	He succeeded in arousing the nation's sympathy.
为此	他在紧急关头十分镇静wei4ci3感到骄傲。	He prides himself on remaining calm in an emergency.
预备	他们完成了yu4bei4训练。	They finished the preparatory training.
按钮	按这个an4niu3开动引擎。	Press this button to start the engine.
祖母	zu3mu3逝世时他们开始服丧.	When grandmother died they went into (ie started to wear) mourning.
澳大利亚	英格兰队负于Ao4da4li4ya4队。	England lost to Australia.
取代	失望的选民需要一个党派以qu3dai4这两个大党.	Disillusioned voters want an alternative to the two main parties.
洗手	吃饭前，我必须xi3shou3。	I must wash my hands before dinner.
叹息	他总是tan4xi1研究经费不足。	He always bemoans the shortage of funds for research.
纸条	在你读到的地方夹上张zhi3tiao2.	Put a piece of paper in (ie in your book) to mark your place.
使劲	他把文件shi3jin4扔在我的桌子上便怒气冲冲地走了出去。	He slammed the papers down on my desk and angrily walked out.
上衣	他的血透过衬衫染污了shang4yi1.	The blood soaked through his shirt and stained his jacket.
丢失	我在晚会上diu1shi1了水晶项链。	I lost my crystal necklace at the party.
驾车	她jia4che1小心地从这条很多石头的小路上驶过去。	She drives carefully up the rocky lane.
早晚	你如果老是这样下去，zao3wan3要倒霉的。	If you carry on like this you'll come in for it sooner or later.
替代	第三位在有机分子中从一指定碳原子后第三个位置，在此一个原子或原子团可能被ti4dai4	The third position from a designated carbon atom in an organic molecule at which an atom or a radical may be substituted.
情愿	他们极力装出qing2yuan4的样子撤回了反对意见.	They withdrew their objections with as good a grace as they could manage.
艰辛	这项工程耗费了长期的jian1xin1劳动	Spent many laborious hours on the project.
夜班	窃贼把ye4ban1守卫员捆住, 把他的嘴也堵住了.	The thieves left the night-watchman tied up and gagged.
不妙	前途似乎有点bu4miao4.	The future does not seem very hopeful.
打死	他被暗杀者的近距离开枪da3si3。	He was mowed down by the assassin at point-blank range.
野兽	很多ye3shou4在春天繁殖。	Many animal breed in the spring.
问好	向你全家wen4hao3。	Remember me to your family.
武士	wu3shi4们冲进宫里保护国王。	The cavaliers rushed into the palace to protect the king.
怒火	他心中憋着一股nu4huo3，按照别人告诉他的去做。	He acted on what he was told with a cold fury in his heart.
世人	shi4ren2未必全都爱自己的爱人，但shi4ren2全都在注视他。	All the world may not love a lover but all the world watch him.
地产	di4chan3的发展逐渐占据了农田.	Increasingly, farm land is yielding to property development.
一家	我们决定开办yi1jia1合作社。	We decided to set up a cooperative.
铃声	直到听到闹钟的ling2sheng1我才醒来。	I didn't wake up until I heard the alarm clock.
线路	我们正交谈时, xian4lu4被切断了.	We were cut off in the middle of our conversation.
负责人	上面（fu4ze2ren2）又送来一个表格让我们填写.	They've (ie The people in authority have) sent us another form to fill in.
拳击	夺标者如在quan2ji1赛中与优胜者或冠军对抗的人，	One who competes against the holder of a title or championship, as in boxing.
螃蟹	我　水时脚趾让pang2xie4给夹了.	A crab nipped my toe while I was paddling.
后台	一种重要的处理过程，其中最高优先权处理任务常常由具有优先度的实时任务形成，经过使用中断而进入较低优先权任务或hou4tai2处理任务。	An important processing procedure in which top-priority processing most often results from real-time entries which usually have precedence, through the use of interrupts into lower-priority or background processing.
来回	我步行一个lai2hui2用一小时。	It takes me an hour to walk there and back.
运作	证券交易所的yun4zuo4情况大多数人都不了解。	The working of the stock exchange is beyond most people's ken.
非得	要她去牙科医生那里看病fei1dei3生拉硬拽不可.	She had to be dragged into seeing the dentist.
避开	为bi4kai1跟踪的人，我迅速跑进一条小巷。	In order to avoid the man following me, I shot into a lane.
带有	风暴dai4you3强风或狂风但很少或几乎无雨的一种风暴	A storm with high winds or violent gusts but little or no rain.
出国	今年我们不能chu1guo2，所以只能去上海度假了。	We can't go abroad this year, so we'll have to content ourselves with a holiday in Shanghai.
思绪	他紧张地坐着，整理着他的si1xu4。	He sat nervously, marshal his thought.
丑陋	在这个童话中，主角是个chou3lou4顽皮的小妖精。	The hero in this fairy story is an ugly goblin.
发光	光滑表面薄的、光滑而fa1guang1亮的面	A thin, smooth, shiny coating.
写信	玛丽xie3xin4时，孩子们在外面玩耍。	While Mary was writing a letter, the children were playing outside.
打发	母亲da3fa5孩子们赶快去上学，然后就开始干起活来。	The mother hustled the children off to school and started working.
庄园	在远zhuang1yuan2欢度周末，使弗雷德和我极感高兴，我简直不知道眼前还有什么其他事情能比得上它。	I can't think of anything Fred and I would enjoy more right now than a weekend at Far Acres.
劲儿	留著点儿jin4r5，你一会儿还得干重活儿呢。	Save your strength for the hard work you'll have to do later.
好转	她的病情终于宣告有了hao3zhuan3—不久就恢复健康了。	At last she was pronounced upon the mend and then convalescent.
王牌	他用一张小的wang2pai2吃了我的A牌。	He took my ace with a low trump.
火鸡	一篮子一篮子摘下来的棉花；退了毛的huo3ji1	Baskets of picked cotton; a picked turkey.
水分	shui3fen4子含有两个氢原子和一个氧原子.	A molecule of water consists of two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen.
气球	那儿有些彩色的qi4qiu2。	There are some color balloons.
柜	她往餐具gui4里放了些盘子。	She put some plates in the sideboard.
熏	警察发现琼斯躲在鸦片馆里，和那里的其他人一样被毒品xun1得昏昏沉沉的。	Police found Jones hiding in an opium den, among other men all hopped up with the drug.
加快	如果我们想准时到达那里，我们最好jia1kuai4速度。	We'd better speed up if we want to get there in time.
裤	他把ku4带扣得紧紧的。	He buckled up his belt tightly.
迷恋	着迷愚蠢的，非理性的或过分的激情或mi2lian4	A foolish, unreasoning, or extravagant passion or attraction.
合约	条约草案he2yue1的预备性的草案或纪录	A preliminary draft or record of a transaction.
保险箱	把这些宝石藏在bao3xian3xiang1里.	Shut the jewels up in the safe.
景	他是一个画街jing3的画家。	He is a painter of street scenes.
大选	da4xuan3後有几位新议员脱颖而出.	After the election several new Members of Parliament came to the fore.
看透	但是你曾经有过用你的视觉去kan4tou4一个朋友或相识的内在本质的时候吗？	But does it ever occur to you to use your sight to see into the inner nature of a friends or acquaintance?
碰巧	我的车发动不起来了，我就向peng4qiao3路过的人求助。	My car had stalled and I sought help from casual passer- by.
手脚	她对这个老人shou3jiao3迟缓，头脑糊涂十分恼火。她应该记住人都要年老的。	She gets impatient with the old man being so slow and confused. She ought to remember that old age comes to us all.
羞辱	必须向人借钱使他感到xiu1ru3。	It galled him to have to ask for a loan.
突击	我们的tu1ji1行动使敌人的右翼暴露无遗。	By a sudden movement we uncovered the enemy's right flank.
友善	微笑常常表示高兴和you3shan4。	A smile often denotes pleasure and friendship.
落地	要把球接住, 不要让它luo4di4.	Try to catch the ball before it lands.
巨人	食人妖魔传说或神说中食人的ju4ren2或妖怪	A giant or monster in legends and fairy tales that eats human beings.
临近	考期lin2jin4了, 所以学生们确实在刻苦钻研。	Now that the exam is near, the students are really going at their studies.
闪闪	太阳使湿草shan3shan3发光。	The wet grass sparkles in the sun.
柏林	那些士兵现驻扎于Bo2lin2。	The soldiers are now stationed in Berlin.
分数	他宁愿送fen1shu4，也不愿要求利益。	He would rather give away a point than claim an advantage.
西方	当太阳横过xi1fang1的海面时，对着东方留下他的最后的敬礼。	The sun goes to cross the Western sea, leaving its last salutation to the East.
仇恨	所有这些都使他充满了对剥削阶级的chou2hen4。	All this filled him with hatred for the exploiting classes.
阻挡	挡道地处在阻碍、zu3dang3或干涉的位置上	In a position to obstruct, hinder, or interfere.
选出	计算机在检查了16000种可能的设计方案之后，xuan3chu1了以最低的成本生产最多化工产品的工厂的设计方案。	After running through16, 000 possible designs, the computer picked out the plan for the plant that would produce the most chemicals at the lowest cost.
抑郁	她那yi4yu4的心情一会儿就过去了。	Her feeling of depression was transient.
闭上	bi4shang5你的嘴, 没人要你说话!	Shut your mouth, nobody asked you!
房租	这个房客因为没有交fang2zu1而被赶出去了。	The tenant was evicted for non-payment of rent.
心头	我觉得xin1tou2沉重。	I've got a lot on my mind.
安妮	An1ni1·博林於1536年被斩首.	Anne Boleyn was beheaded in 1536.
食堂	集体用膳shi2tang2	A mess hall.
当做	他把驾驶员dang4zuo4人质。	He kept the pilot as a hostage.
认得	我在街上遇到她时，她假装不ren4de5我。	She pretended she didn't know me when I passed her in the street.
钓鱼	diao4yu2的人渡水到河中央去了.	The angler waded (out) into the middle of the river.
路人	有学生向lu4ren2散发传单.	There were students dishing out leaflets to passers-by.
花费	对我来说，拥有一辆汽车的hua1fei5太大。	It's too much of an expense for me to own a car.
星期四	我们每个xing1qi1si4下午开会。	We have meetings every Thursday afternoon.
室内	所有的房间都装备有电炉以保持shi4nei4撮氏15－20度的常温。	All roams are equipped with electric heaters to keep indoor temperatures constant at15-2.0.
同盟	拼凑一个军事tong2meng2。	Rig up a military alliance
泡菜	他晚饭吃了一些什锦pao4cai4和米饭。	He had some mixed pickles and rice for supper.
争执	把旁观者牵扯进他与警察的zheng1zhi2	Involved the bystanders in his dispute with the police.
少数	在漫长的世界历史中，只有shao3shu4几代人在自由处于最危急的时刻被赋予保卫自由的责任。	In the long history of the world, only a few generations have been granted the role of defending freedom in its hour of maximum danger.
火热	我一整天围着huo3re4的炉子辛辛苦苦地做出这顿饭，可是他们现在几乎一点儿也没有吃。	I slaved away all day over a hot stove to produce this meal, and now they've hardly eaten any of it.
暖气	那所房子是出卖的，房子里有nuan3qi4设备。	That house is for sale. It has central heating.
儿时	这个凡人叫阿拉喀涅，她有一手非凡的纺织和刺绣本领，每当这位少女干活er2shi2就连林中和喷泉中的神女们也都拥来观看。	That mortal was Arachne, a maiden who had attained such skill in the arts of weaving and embroidery that the nymphs themselves would leave their groves and fountains to come and gaze upon her work.
聚集	大群的人迅速地在演说者周围ju4ji2起来。	A crowd quickly congregated round the speaker.
守卫	四个士兵shou3wei4灵柩.	Four soldiers stood guard over the coffin.
出入	她再与也不会干涉你了，你有了独立自主权，你已经有了你自己chu1ru4大门的钥匙。	She won't interfere with you any more; your independence is achieved and you have won your latchkey.
盛大	在这儿为你们举行sheng4da4的宴会是我们极大的愉快。	It's a great happiness to us to have a grand banquet in your honour here.
国会	在上届guo2hui4中社会党人占优势.	The Socialists were predominant in the last Parliament.
杰作	就技术而言那座建筑物是jie2zuo4, 但却没人喜欢.	Technicallythe building is a masterpiece, but few people like it.
之上	这位女士的年纪在五十岁zhi1shang4，决不会少于五十岁。	The woman may be above fifty, but (she may) not (be) below fifty.
月光	我们在yue4guang1下静静地坐着。	We sat quietly in the moonshine.
更换	工党领导人geng1huan4後全党时来运转.	The change of leader led to a turn-around in the fortunes of the Labour Party.
大气	da4qi4中如果没有氧和氮，人就无法生存于地球了。	If it were not for oxygen and nitrogen in the air, no man could live on the earth.
出租	这个公司chu1zu1房地产。	This company leases out property.
电视机	我一整天都在家里等候你们的电视修理员来取dian4shi4ji1，但他失约了。	I've been waiting in all day for your television repair man to collect the set, but he didn't come as he promised.
乳房	小牛摸索着妈妈的ru3fang2找奶吃。	The calf fumbled for its mother's udder for milk.
智者	zhi4zhe3并非每一件事都懂。	A wise man doesn't know everything.
苏联	美国和前Su1lian2都是条约的签署国.	The US and the former Soviet Union were co-signatories of/to the treaty.
追查	我决定不再zhui1cha2那事.	I have decided not to pursue (ie investigate) the matter any further.
往后	我是不是该把桌子wang3hou4挪?	Should I move the table back?
一心	这孩子yi1xin1想要这样东西。	The child has set his heart on it.
无疑	wu2yi2，他们一定知道这样讲话可能产生的后果。	Certainly they must know the probable result of such speeches.
沉浸	那个腿部受伤致残的士兵正chen2jin4在悲哀之中。	The soldier disabled by wounds in his leg is buried in sadness.
现货	我们的xian4huo4中没有那种颜色--这是最近似的.	We don't have that colour in stock this is the nearest.
核桃	坚果种子生长在有硬壳的果实之内的种子，如花生、杏或he2tao5	A seed borne within a fruit having a hard shell, as in the peanut, almond, or walnut.
王国	国王是一个wang2guo2中最重要的人物。	The king is the most important person in a kingdom.
施工	该房子／公路正在shi1gong1中。	The house/highway is in course of construction.
逝去	她向往她shi4qu4的青春。	She sighed for her lost youth.
恐慌	化工厂发生爆炸引起了害怕污染的巨大kong3huang1。	The explosion at the chemical factory cause a major pollution scare.
道具	她负责采购电视系列片所用的dao4ju4.	She was responsible for buying the properties for the television series.
图像	放大率tu2xiang4的尺寸和实物尺寸之间的比率	The ratio of the size of an image to the size of an object.
宅	黎明前，这个负伤的男人被神秘地带出了庄园zhai2邸。	Before dawn the wounded man is spirited away from the house.
巴斯	我们的供应厂商已迁往ba1 si1.	Our suppliers have removed to Bath.
除掉	chu2diao4金星以外其他的星星全都消失了。	All but the morning star have disappeared.
点名	小男孩在dian3ming2时不见了。	The boy turned up missing at roll call.
售价	这些圆珠笔零shou4jia4为70便士.	These biros retail at/for 70p.
尊	上个月在这儿挖出了一zun1古希腊雕像	An old Greek statue was dug up here last month.
纪念日	她责备他竟把他们的结婚周年ji4nian4ri4忘了.	She reproached him for forgetting their anniversary.
设法	他she4fa3弄到一笔贷款买了一栋房子。	He managed to secure a loan to purchase a house.
前来	我代表总统qian2lai2迎接您。	I greet you in the name of the President.
挡住	修了一道堤坝dang3zhu4洪水.	A dyke was built to retain the floods.
滑稽	他喜欢在周末看hua2ji5剧来放松自己。	He likes to watch farces at weekends to relax himself.
诗人	shi1ren2造了几个词典里找不到的词。	The poet minted several words that cannot be found in any dictionary.
曲线	图表上的qu1xian4突降之後逐渐趋於平稳.	The graph flattens out gradually after a steep fall.
长发	她那一头波浪般的chang2fa4一簇簇一圈圈地散垂在肩上。	Her wavy hair fell in loose wisps and loops upon her shoulders.
搬走	我的房东让我月底ban1zou3.	My landlord is turning me out at the end of the month.
闻到	你能wen2dao4煤气漏气吗？	Can you smell a gas leak?
身影	她打开门，里面射出的灯光在她的shen1ying3四周镶了一圈黄色的边。	She opened the door, and the yellow light from inside rimmed about her.
电力	若不付费用, 就要停止供应dian4li4[煤气].	If you don't pay your bills they'll disconnect your electricity/gas.
猜想	我不是cai1xiang3--我知道!	I'm not guessing I know!
扭	他回过身来, 帮助那位niu3了脚的朋友。	He came back to help his friend who had sprained an ankle.
君主	那个皇帝是个残酷的专制jun1zhu3。	That emperor was a cruel despot.
没收	任何人如帮助敌人危害本国，他的生命财产便被国家mo4shou1。	If man put his country in danger by helping the enemy, his life and possessions were forfeit to the crown.
点燃	他dian3ran2了一支蜡烛。	He lit up a wax candle.
用不着	暂时还yong4bu5zhao2，谢谢你。	Not at the moment, thank you.
夜空	你可以看到ye4kong1中的星群。	You can see stars in clusters in the night sky.
有助于	这次经验you3zhu4yu2帮助她改变社会意识。	This experience helped to change her social consciousness.
效应	剂量需要产生特定xiao4ying4的疫苗、浆液、药物或其他剂的量	The quantity of a vaccine, serum, drug, or other agent necessary to produce a specific effect.
钟头	她晚了一个zhong1tou2了吧? 她就是这样.	She was an hour late, was she? That's about par for the course for her.
装满	去替我zhuang1man3一桶水来。	Go and fill this bucket with water for me.
增	zeng1税引起了一片怨声。	There was uproar over the tax increase.
笑声	隔壁房间里突然爆发出一阵xiao4sheng1。	There was a burst of laughter in the next room.
押	被告还ya1候审一星期.	The accused was remanded in custody for a week.
马戏团	真不凑巧，当ma3xi4tuan2来到我们镇上时戴维得了麻疹。	It was too bad David had measles when the circus came to our town.
乌龟	｀你有什麽宠物吗?＇｀有, 我有三只兔子和一只wu1gui1.＇	`Have you got any pets?' `Yes, I've got three rabbits and a tortoise.'
拐	你guai3错弯了。	You take the wrong turning.
老友	我遇到了一位境遇变化了的lao3you3。	I came across an old friend in changed circumstances.
陪同	首相在其助手pei2tong2下访问我国。	The Prime Minister came to visit our country in the company of his assistant.
举起	当老师提问题时学生们都ju3qi3了手。	The pupils all put up their hands when the teacher asks them questions.
专用	技术规范中叙述了每台设备或全部设备所需的附件、zhuan1yong4工具和消耗件。	Accessories, special tools and expendable required with each unit or totally are described in the technical specification.
左手	她zuo3shou3上戴着一枚钻石戒指。	She wears a diamond ring on her left hand.
法则	物理学受宇宙fa3ze2的制约.	Physics is governed by cosmic laws.
村子	除了cun1zi5尽头的岔道外，还有一条大路。	There was one street apart from a tributary road near the end of the village.
委托人	律师论辨说这一裁决侵害了他的wei3tuo1ren2。	The attorney argue that the decision involve prejudice to his client.
安定	当他在国外an1ding4下来时，他开始想念祖国了。	He came to miss his homeland when he settled down abroad.
为主	欧申赛德美国纽约东南部一个还未合并的位于长岛南岸的社区。欧寻赛德是一个以住宅及休养wei2zhu3的城镇。人口32，423	An unincorporated community of southeast New York on the southern shore of Long Island. Oceanside is a residential and resort town. Population, 32,423.
宗	这zong1事故是人为过失造成的。	The accident was caused by human error.
透过	阳光tou4guo4窗帘映了进来。	The sunlight filtered through the curtains.
领导人	党的ling3dao3ren2的各种观点已统一为一致的政策.	The views of party leaders coalesced to form a coherent policy.
空军	约翰的哥哥已报名参加了kong1jun1，这是他渴望已久的。	John's brother signed up with the Air Force, something he always wanted to do.
房价	fang2jia4稳定了几个月, 现在又上涨了.	House prices, which have been static for several months, are now rising again.
说了算	告诉我：在任何一项工作中，是师傅shuo1le5suan4，还是助手shuo1le5suan4！""""那得看情况。""	Tell me this: In any job of work, should the master have the last word, or the assistant! "" ""That depends.""
物价	经急剧通货膨胀之後wu4jia4现已趋於平稳。	After a period of rapid inflation, price have now reach a plateau.
渡过	在最近的这次危机中，没有一家银行能帮助那些处于困境的公司du4guo4难关。	In the recent crisis no banks could manage to bail out the companies feeling financial pressure.
急于	不要ji2yu2下结论。	Don't jump to conclusions.
喧嚣	和大城市中的高楼大厦和xuan1xiao1的街道相比，他更喜欢乡间的农庄和田野。	He likes the farms and fields in the country better than the tall buildings and busy streets in the city.
歌舞	他们正准备上演新的ge1wu3喜剧。	They are preparing for the presentation of a new musical.
肝脏	这种药使用过量会损害gan1zang4.	Excessive dosage of this drug can result in injury to the liver.
无线电	我们通过wu2xian4dian4同那只船保持联系。	We made contact with the ship by radio.
如下	这次会议的议程ru2xia4....	The agenda for the meeting is as follows....
扭曲	变形形状niu3qu1	A distortion in shape.
出自	如果这种婚姻chu1zi4一个女人的自愿选择，甚至是不顾亲友的劝告而选择的，那么就让她自己去品尝这枚果实的滋味吧。	But this never fails, if the bad husbands were of their own choosing, against their friends consent; for then they will be sure to make good their own folly.
供应	我们国家有充足的食物gong1ying4。	Our country has a bountiful supply of food.
西南	这里最常刮的风是xi1nan2风.	The prevailing wind here is from the south-west.
日报	所有ri4bao4都刊登了这条消息.	The news was blazed all over the daily papers.
担忧	进口与出口的比例（入超）令政府dan1you1.	The proportion of imports to exports (ie excess of imports over exports) is worrying the government.
花朵	开出鲜艳hua1duo3的爬藤植物瀑布般悬挂在花园墙上。	Climbing plants with their bright flowers hung in cascades over the garden wall.
设定	电视机she4ding4在10点钟自动打开。	The video is programmed to switch on at ten o'clock.
步行	他跑步出发，但很快就累得慢下来成了bu4xing2。	He started off at a run but soon tired and slowed to a walk.
名声	这家商店因公平交易而获好ming2sheng1。	This store has an excellent reputation for fair dealing.
候选人	按一般人在这些问题上的看法，选民常常着眼于国内问题来选择hou4xuan3ren2。	According to conventional wisdom, voters usually make their choice on the basis of domestic issues.
光线	棱镜可以分解guang1xian4。	A prism decomposes light.
小狗	父亲给我买了一只xiao3gou3作为生日礼物。	My father bought me a puppy as a birthday gift.
赞同	我从来不zan4tong2政治上的极端主义.	I have never associated myself with political extremism.
捐款	她juan1kuan3给一个动物保护协会。	She subscribes to an animal protection society.
夏日	不用说，xia4ri4的傍晚是多么美。	Needs not say how lovely are the summer evenings.
鹰	ying1在头顶上盘旋。	The hawk is hovering overhead.
人造	现在人类所使用的所有纤维之中，有很大的百分比是ren2zao4的。	Of all the fibers now used by man, a very large percentage is man-made.
贫穷	我们应该团结起来为消除pin2qiong2和疾病而斗争.	We should unite in fighting/unite to fight poverty and disease.
滑动	这种费用是根据收入高低hua2dong4折算的.	Fees are calculated on a sliding scale according to income.
牙医	ya2yi1给我镶了颗假牙。	I was fitted an artificial tooth by the dentist.
住处	他们热心照顾这个年轻的姑娘，给她吃的，给她zhu4chu4。	They befriended the young girl, providing her with food and shelter.
中年	他接近六十岁了，但他仍认为自己还是zhong1nian2人。	He's nearly60, but he still considers himself to be middle-aged.
例子	从几个li4zi5中仅给你举出一例....	To give you only one example out of several....
怀里	她把那孩子搂在huai2 li3.	She pressed the child to her.
毫不	她一定很难过, 但hao2bu4形之於色.	She gives no outward sign of the sadness she must feel.
别处	可能bie2chu4还需要它。	It may be wanted elsewhere.
叛徒	所谓的pan4tu2均已（从队伍中）清洗出去.	So-called traitors were purged (from their ranks).
业	他经营餐饮ye4。	He carries on a food business.
外壳	有些水果和种子有wai4ke2。	Some fruits and seeds have hulls.
鹅	那e2愤怒地向我发出嘶嘶声.	The goose hissed at me angrily.
接收	这里的无线电jie1shou1情况不太好。	Radio reception isn't very good here.
重建	再chong2jian4这座建筑物是不可能的。	Reconstruction of that building is impossible.
烦人	让我把一切都得解释得那麽详细, 可真fan2ren2.	It wearies me to have to explain everything in such detail.
演技	尼任斯基对yan3ji4精益求精一丝不苟.	Nijinsky was unsparing in his demands for perfection.
中途	我们是不著陆的连续飞行呢, 还是要在zhong1tu2的什麽地方停一停?	Is this a continuous flight, or do we stop off anywhere?
惹麻烦	没有谁愿意re3 ma2fan5。	Nobody likes to get into trouble.
以至于	她对他的影响非常大，yi3zhi4yu2完全控制了他。	Her interest with him is such that she governs him absolutely.
苍蝇	我们在碗上铺了白的覆盖物防止cang1ying5。	We spread white covers over the bowls to keep flies away.
从不	我cong2bu4后悔参军，我认为自己做得对。	I never regretted joining up. I think I did the right thing.
一阵	我踌躇了yi1zhen4，还是无法做决定。	I faltered for a while and was still unable to make a decision.
得了	他de2le5肝癌。	He's got a cancer in his liver.
病情	他的样子和他在电话中说话的声音反映的bing4qing2是一样的。	He looks as ill as he sounded on the phone.
四周	她彷佛茫然不知身在何处，犹犹豫豫向si4zhou1打量。	As if unsure of where she was, she hesitated and looked round.
无效	废除使…作废和wu2xiao4	The act of making null and void.
功课	她的gong1ke4行吗?	Is her schoolwork up to scratch?
房屋	这一排排的fang2wu1外表都是一样的。	The rows of houses were uniform in appearance.
平板	绷紧的薄膜状物挤压得很紧的ping2ban3或薄膜，如鼓面	A tightly stretched sheet or membrane, as on the head of a drum.
柜子	那个木匠做的这个gui4zi5很漂亮--他真是个能工巧匠.	The carpenter has made this cupboard beautifully he's a real artist.
流动	liu2dong4工人为了寻找工作从一个城市移居到另一个城市。	Migrant workers move from city to city in search of work.
美国人	Mei3guo2ren2是各种种族人的熔合体。	Americans are the fusion of many different races.
非凡	他在面对危险的时候表现出fei1fan2的勇气。	He showed remarkable courage when he faced the danger.
捐赠	慈善事业依靠自愿juan1zeng4.	Charities rely on voluntary donations/contributions.
白菜	bai2cai4一星期内就发芽了.	The cabbages germinated within a week.
毒药	这些箭的箭头上都蘸上了du2yao4。	The arrows had been tipped with poison.
指引	zhi3yin3物，指针用来作向导的事物	Something that serves to guide.
占有	无产阶级工业社会中挣工资的阶级，他们既没zhan4you3资本也没有生产资料，必须通过出卖劳动谋生	The class of industrial wage earners who, possessing neither capital nor production means, must earn their living by selling their labor.
写下	在这张粉红色纸条上xie3xia4你的姓名和地址。	Write your name and address on this pink slip.
凌乱	书本ling2luan4地散置在地上.	The books were scattered pell-mell over the floor.
特权	经理拥有居于高职位所具备的职责和te4quan2。	The manager has the duties and privileges appertaining to his high office.
好比	我们的工作hao3bi3一场战斗。	Our work can be compared to a battle.
行驶	她开车xing2shi3了大约十英里.	She drove for about ten miles.
正直	我们钦佩他的zheng4zhi2。	We admire him for his righteousness.
超出	它已经chao1chu1法院的权限。	It has beyond the competence of the court.
狂热	他kuang2re4地爱好书籍。	He is mad about books.
食欲	走了长路使我shi2yu4大振.	The long walk has given me a good appetite.
老太太	他很有礼貌地帮助那个lao3 tai4tai5扛包裹。	It was courteous of him to help the old lady with her bundles.
已婚	本公司认为，您所展示的yi3hun1妇女服装最适合我们的市场需求。	The lines you showed for the married women would be most suitable for our market.
必定	他没有钱, 所以, 他bi4ding4会出现的。	He hasn't got any money, so he's bound to turn up sooner or later.
接通	自来水jie1tong1了吗?	Is the water on?
拿起	我na2qi3了那把刀，把它扔到了窗外。	I picked up the knife and threw it out of the window.
去掉	我怎样才能把墙上的污垢qu4diao4呢?	How can I get the dirt off the walls?
加热	水jia1re4则成为蒸汽，冷却则成为冰。	Water is changed into steam by heat and into ice by cold.
额头	深深的皱纹布上他的e2tou2.	Deep furrows lined his brow.
碉堡	好，这是我们夺取敌人diao1bao3的好机会，千万不能错过。	Now this is our big chance to take the enemy pillbox and we can't afford to miss out.
本性	这两兄弟仅外表相似，ben3xing4却很不一样。	There is only a formal likeness between the two brothers, for their natures are very different.
窃听	说话要当心，咱们的话可能被qie4ting1了。	Be careful what you say; our conversation may be being bugged.
一齐	溺水的男孩大声喊叫，大家yi1qi2赶去救他。	The drowning boy called out and everybody rushed to his rescue.
过错	我曾经犯过不少错误，但从未犯过宣称自己未犯guo4cuo4误的错误。	I have made mistakes, but I have never made the mistake of claiming that I never made one.
好些	帮助人们生活得hao3xie1是教会的责任。	It's the job of the church to help people lead better lives.
双手	他站在那里，shuang1shou3插在口袋里。	He stood there with his hands in his pockets.
无能	他会被认为是个软弱wu2neng2的领导人。	He will be considered a weak leader.
新生	我感觉像是个xin1sheng1的婴儿。	I feel like a newborn baby.
打倒	要是那女人获得共和党的提名……我就要da3dao3她。	If that woman gets the Republican nomination…I will lay her out in lavender.
洋溢	用餐时yang2yi4著热情友好的气氛。	The atmosphere over dinner was warm and friendly.
乌鸦	wu1ya1在树上呱呱叫着。	The raven cawed on the tree.
麻雀	ma2que4在我们这个城市里是一种常见的鸟。	The sparrow is a common bird in our city.
蒜	这菜里要再加点儿suan4.	This dish needs a touch more garlic.
线条	xian4tiao2和色彩在肖像绘画中都很重要.	Line and colour are both important in portrait painting.
保释	地方法官准许[不准]他bao3shi4.	The magistrate granted/refused him bail.
不是	它bu4shi5手表。	It is not a watch.
大自然	学习植物学使我对da4zi4ran2了解了许多。	In learning botany, I understand much about nature.
纸巾	请递给我一张zhi3jin1。	Please pass me a piece of paper handkerchief.
琼斯	史密斯先生和Qiong2si1太太以及另外三位老师都在那儿.	Mr Smith and Mrs Jones and three other teachers were there.
这样子	就zhe4yang4zi5，那争吵是一次漂亮的争吵；若要为它解释一番，就只会糟踢它罢了。	The quarrel is a very pretty quarrel as it stands; we should only spoil it by trying to explain it.
夏季	我们将於xia4ji4停播而於秋季开始播放一套新节目.	We'll be off the air for the summer and returning for a new series in the autumn.
奖学金	她争取获得jiang3 xue2 jin1.	She's aiming at (ie trying to win) a scholarship.
身子	体操运动员在双杠上摆动shen1zi5.	The gymnast swung on the parallel bars.
八十	尽管他已经ba1shi2多岁了，看上去还很健壮。	Although he is over eighty, he looks hale and healthy.
同伙	小偷被逮住了，但他的tong2huo3却逃之夭夭。	The thief was arrested, but his confederate escaped.
发脾气	他fa1 pi2qi5时让人无法忍受。	He is unbearable when he's in a bad temper.
执法	警察负责zhi2fa3。	The police are responsible for the enforcement of the law.
过量	guo4liang4喝酒对你的身体有害。	It is harmful to your health to drink too much.
不至于	常去教堂的英国人更喜欢严格的布教者，因为他认为一些深刻的真理bu4zhi4yu2伤害他的邻居。	The british churchgoer prefer a severe preacher because he think a few home truth with do his neighbour no harm.
单子	这两张dan1zi5不相符。	The two lists do not tally.
孤	一支gu1烛使黑暗的房间亮了起来。	A solitary candle lightened the darkness of the room.
消费者	生产者与xiao1fei4zhe3之间的利益冲突将永远存在。	The conflicting interests of producers and consumers will be everlasting.
炸药	zha4yao4是爆炸物.	Dynamite is an explosive.
廉价	lian2jia4照相机的质量并总不比昂贵的差。	A cheaper camera is not always inferior to a more expensive one.
细心	对这东西要特别xi4xin1.	Take special care of it.
衬衣	那件混纺的确良chen4yi1花了我九块钱。	That mixed dacron shirt cost me nine yuan.
盏	那zhan3灯悬挂在桌子上方。	The lamp hung over the table.
市中心	这个城市在飞速发展，shi4zhong1xin1的房地产价格越来越贵。	The city is developing rapidly and property in the center is becoming more expensive.
脚踝	她踩到一块松动的石头上，扭伤了jiao3huai2。	She stepped on a loose stone and twisted her ankle.
转换	镜头zhuan3huan4到一座坟墓。	The scene shifted to a sepulcher.
菠菜	我不喜欢吃bo1cai4，虽然我知道它对我有好处。	I don't like spinach even though I know it's good for me.
裂缝	墙上有条lie4feng4。	There is a fissure on the wall.
教学	他援引教授物理学方面的一些运动定律为例，说明当计算机用于辅助jiao4xue2时，学生在幼年就能够理解这些定律。	He cites as an example the teaching of the laws of motion in physics, which he says are accessible at an early age when a computer is used to assist in the instruction.
过时	一个guo4shi2的火车机车	An obsolete locomotive.
干部	这是我从当地gan4bu4那里了解到的情况。	That's what I've learnt from the local cadres.
缩小	再往里走，坑道suo1xiao3成了一条窄窄的通道。	The tunnel contract to a narrow passageway as you go deep.
领地	厨房是我妻子的ling3di4，她不愿让我进去。	The kitchen is my wife's domain, she doesn't like me going into it.
橙子	cheng2zi5含有维生素C。	Oranges contain vitamin C.
戳	移民官员在我的护照上盖了chuo1。	The immigration officer stamped my passport.
路程	我给自己一小时跑那一段lu4cheng2。	I gave myself an hour for the journey.
钢	烧热的gang1淬火使它坚硬。	Hot steel is quenched to harden it.
通行证	无tong1xing2zheng4者不得入内.	There is no admittance without a pass.
仆人	她没有端著架子把我们当作pu2ren2对待.	She doesn't stand on her dignity and treat the rest of us as servants.
宿	这里的膳su4供应也许不见得完全令人满意，但是我们只好随遇而安。	The accommodation may not be all that we should like, but we shall have to make the best of it.
刻薄	别对你兄弟这么ke4bo2。	Don't be so unkind to your brother.
南部	非洲nan2bu4的干旱高原	An arid plateau of southern Africa.
苦恼	我因屡次失败而ku3nao3。	I was embittered by repeated failures.
脚趾	用手够到你的jiao3zhi3, 膝盖别弯曲.	Touch your toes without bending your knees.
遗嘱	那位富翁在yi2zhu3中什么都没给他儿子留下。	The rich man left his son nothing in the will.
读者	我经常收到读过我的书的du2zhe3的来信。	I regularly get letters from people who have read my books.
不已	即使周围的人都惊惶bu4yi3, 她也总是保持著超然的镇静.	Even when those around her panic she always maintains an Olympian calm.
跪下	我们在御座前gui4xia5.	We knelt before the throne.
通信	我们已（互相）tong1xin4多年了, 可是我从未见过他本人.	We've corresponded (with each other) (ie written to each other) for years but I've never actually met him.
走过	当她看到他zou3guo4来的时候，她的脸亮了起来。	Her face lit up when she saw he was coming.
得出	这些都是事实, 你能从中de2chu1什麽结论?	Those are the facts; what do you conclude from them?
嗓音	她陶醉于自己的sang3yin1。	She is enamored of the sound of her own voice.
大使	他被任命为驻美国da4shi3。	He was appointed ambassador to the United States.
入学	没有一件事比我儿子幸能通过ru4xue2考试更使我高兴。	Nothing would please me more than that my son should pass the entrance examination.
疗法	多年的研究工作未能找到医治这种疾病的liao2fa3.	Years of research work have failed to produce a cure for the disease.
办公	我一走近她的ban4gong1桌，她就瞪我。	She glares at me if I go near her desk.
采	他cai3了一朵玫瑰给她。	He picked her a rose.
开动	只要一按电钮，机器就会kai1dong4。	Just press the button and the machine will start.
美貌	所有的人都震惊于她天仙般的mei3mao4。	People were all shocked at her godlike beauty.
董事会	dong3shi4hui4决定大规模生产这种汽车。	The board of directors made the decision to produce the car on a large scale.
推进	自己运动的；自己tui1jin4的或自己驱动的	Moving by itself; self-propelling or self-propelled.
抽空	务必chou1kong4来坐坐.	Do come round and see us some time.
阴天	整个早上都是yin1tian1。	It's been cloudy all morning.
小型	xiao3xing2的或微小的尺寸很小或尺寸缩得很小的	Being on a small or greatly reduced scale.
眼看	yan3kan4天就要亮了。	It'll be daylight soon.
药品	新近发生的这一悲惨事件使yao4pin3厂商受到指控.	This recent tragedy has put the manufacturersof the drug squarely in the dock.
昨夜	zuo2ye4有人看见两个形迹可疑的人在校园里徘徊。	Two suspicious-looking fellows were seen hanging around the campus last night.
学费	如果孩子上了私立学校，他的父母就要为孩子的教育付xue2fei4。	If a child attends a private school, his parents pay the school for the child's education.
各种各样	老是有ge4zhong3-ge4yang4的天气，不论我们喜欢不喜欢。	There's always weather, weather, whether we like it or not.
鸡尾酒	对ji1wei3jiu3会的厌恶	An allergy to cocktail parties.
架子	她买了一些木材下脚料做厨房用jia4zi5.	She bought some timber off-cuts to build kitchen shelves.
破碎	飞机撞上了山而po4sui4。	The plane struck on the hill and went to pieces.
燕子	yan4zi5在空中掠过.	Swallows are darting through the air.
厌烦	她很yan4fan2那些没完没了的嘈杂声。	She feels wearisome by the constant noise.
憎恨	感到厌恶的，感到zeng1hen4的	Feeling repugnance or loathing.
得以	她仗著她那些有钱的亲戚而不必工作, de2yi3坐享清福.	She avoided having to work by battening on her rich relatives.
常见	我们虽算不上关系密切, 但还chang2jian4面.	We're not exactly on intimate terms, but we see each other fairly often.
出动	政府派警方chu1dong4恢复治安.	The government ordered the police out to restore order in the streets.
型号	这是我们所有产品中最受欢迎的xing2hao4.	This is the most popular model in our whole range.
管理员	这座公寓的guan3li3yuan2不在公寓里住.	This block of flats has a non-resident caretaker.
业绩	首次飞跃大西洋是一项了不起的ye4ji4。	Flying across the Atlantic for the first time was a great achievement.
微微	他这样做时，指头wei1wei1颤动了一下。	His fingers trembled while doing so.
体育馆	篮球运动员们正在ti3yu4guan3进行训练。	The basketball players are working out at the gym.
想象力	这个计划在构思上很有xiang3xiang4li4。	The plan is very imaginative in conception.
诚意	我怎样才能使你相信我的cheng2yi4呢？	How can I persuade you of my sincerity!
刀子	他用一把钝dao1zi5切肉。	He cut the meat with a blunt knife.
豆子	今年dou4zi5丰收.	The beans cropped well this year.
好感	只要你得到我们主管的hao3gan3，她就一切好说。	Our supervisor is all right as long as you keep in her good books.
带到	无线电高空测候器一种被dai4dao4高空（主要由气球）进行气象数据收集和传送的仪器	An instrument carried aloft, chiefly by balloon, to gather and transmit meteorological data.
牢房	舞台设计成lao2fang2的样子.	The stage was designed to imitate a prison cell.
拍卖	军队正在把大量旧装备pai1mai4掉.	The Army is auctioning off a lot of old equipment.
晕倒	那个乞丐饿得yun1dao3了。	The beggar fell down in a swoon from sheer hunger.
背心	他的衬衫很薄, 连里面穿的bei4xin1都能看见.	His shirt was so thin that his vest showed through (it).
丛林	这只老虎拖着它的猎物进了cong2lin2。	The tiger dragged its kill into the jungle.
劫匪	jie2fei3假装成保安人员进入银行。	The robbers got into the bank by masquerading as security men.
罗杰	Luo2jie2是一个极有教养的：他总是体贴入微并彬彬有礼。	Roger is every inch a gentleman: he's always thoughtful and courteous.
小费	赏钱，xiao3fei4当得到服务所给的恩惠或礼物，通常以钱的形式给予	A favor or gift, usually in the form of money, given in return for service.
州长	我很荣幸能介绍我们的zhou1zhang3	I have the honor to present the governor.
腹部	他fu4bu4受到一击而直不起腰来。	A blow to the stomach made him curl up.
火山	huo3shan1散发着烟和灰。	A volcano emits smoke and ashes.
特地	我te4di4为你做了个蛋糕。	I made a cake specially for you.
大清早	他总是da4qing1zao3给我打电话.	He's eternally telephoning me early in the morning.
病房	这医院有内科bing4fang2和外科bing4fang2.	The hospital has a medical ward and a surgical ward.
搜寻	他正在当年的旧文件中sou1xun2伊丽莎白时代一般家庭开支的细节。	He is hunting up details of Elizabethan household expenditure in a document of the time.
毒素	一家生物工艺开发公司正在根据自然滋生du2su4的原理研制新型农药系列产品。	A biotechnology company is developing a range of new pesticide based on naturally occur toxin.
涨价	现在的钢材zhang3jia4了。	Now the steel comes high.
体温	护士量了我的ti3wen1。	The nurse took my temperature.
提早	我今天ti2zao3工作都做完了，但是别人都还在工作，我不好意思回家。	I have gotten my work all done ahead of time today, but I'd feel guilty going home while everybody else is still work.
伊丽莎白	Yi1li4sha1bai2女王时代的英国流行风气	The genius of Elizabethan England.
道别	她从火车窗口里伸出手挥动手帕dao4bie2。	She fluttered her handkerchief from the train window as a good-bye.
前任	希思先生是英国qian2ren4首相。	Mr. Heath is the former Prime Minister of Britain.
外国人	一个wai4guo2ren2走近柜台，要求拿些明信片出来让我看看。	A foreigner came up to the counter and asked to be shown some postcards.
茶叶	这个商人收到了一船cha2ye4。	The merchant had received a shipment of tea.
脸红	轮到皇后时，她lian3hong2了。	The Queen looked blushed in her turn.
斗志	他们失去了首领以後便丧失了dou4zhi4.	Losing their leader took all the fight out of them.
运送	散装yun4song4货物更方便。	It is more convenient to transport the goods in bulk.
景象	你一定会被那美丽的jing3xiang4所感动的。	You will never fail to be moved by the beauty of the sight.
叠	束帆索一种绳子或帆布带，用来把一个卷die2的帆置于一横木或斜桁上	A cord or canvas strap used to secure a furled sail to a yard boom or gaff.
提交	我们应该向理事会ti2jiao1计划以求批准。	We should submit our plans to the council for approval.
管道	人们挖开半个路面以铺设新的煤气guan3dao4。	Half the road surface is being taken up to lay new gas pipes.
流水	我听见有liu2shui3的声音.	I can hear running water.
终生	行为的修正由动物过去的经历导致的保持zhong1sheng1的行为修正	Persistent modification of behavior resulting from an animal's experience.
舰队	该jian4dui4正在波罗的海演习.	The fleet is manoeuvring in the Baltic.
看成	不应把人的因素kan4cheng2是经济体制的附庸.	People should not be regarded as subservient to the economic system.
往前	那个小男孩在他母亲身边跳跳蹦蹦地wang3 qian2走。	The little boy skipped along at his mother's side.
皮带	我这条裤子要是不系pi2dai4就往下掉.	My trousers only stay up if I wear a belt.
国民	guo2min2大会已对这一危机进行了讨论.	The national assembly has/have met to discuss the crisis.
可耻	这些年，他干了许多ke3chi3的事情。	He has done many dishonorable things these years
发音	你的fa1yin1毛病是可以纠正的。	Your faults of pronunciation can be remedied.
公爵	亨利八世决定开放若干gong1jue2猎园，把它们改作更加有益的牧场。	Henry VIII decided to dispark the Duchy parks and turn them more profitably into pasture.
转弯	我们在兰开斯特zhuan3wan1离开了高速公路.	We turned off the motorway at Lancaster.
罐子	guan4zi5掉在地板上摔了个粉碎.	The pot shattered as it hit the floor.
证券	纽约是国际zheng4quan4与股票的交易中心。	New York is an international mart for stocks and shares.
流畅	发梢向内蜷曲的齐肩发型一种发型，通常是齐肩的长发，头发末端朝里卷成自然liu2chang4的发卷	A hairstyle, usually shoulder-length, with the ends of the hair curled under smoothly in a loose roll.
看病	常给我们kan4bing4的那个医生, 我们都非常喜欢他, 他要走了.	Our doctor, whom/who we all like very much, is leaving.
赌注	他下的du3zhu4连续获胜才挽回了损失.	He retrieved his losses by betting on a succession of winners.
懦夫	nuo4fu1一生要经过许多次死的痛苦。	Cowards die many times before their death.
园	yuan2中有一堆马铃薯。	There is a pile of potato in the garden.
长度	回针缝在先前缝的一针中间加缝的一针，以便使针脚的交错重叠为原来chang2du4的一半	A stitch made by inserting the needle at the midpoint of a preceding stitch so that the stitches overlap by half lengths.
以色列	一个用太阳能的电冰箱已由两位Yi3se4lie4的工程师发展成功了。	A sun-powered refrigerator has been developed by two Israeli engineers.
尺寸	先把chi3cun4量好, 再把木材锯成所需长短.	First measure (it) up, then cut the timber to the correct length.
瑞典	目的是要让它在不断增长的Rui4dian3威力中起主要作用。	She was intended to play a leading role in the growing might of Sweden.
画家	伟大的hua4jia1总是走在时代的前头。	A great painter is usually ahead of his time.
思路	我稍微整理了一下si1lu4, 然後回答说....	After a few seconds to unscramble my thoughts, I replied...
称之为	他们爱举行戏cheng1zhi1wei2文学晚会的活动.	They're fond of holding what are laughingly known as literary soirees.
全家	代我向你们quan2jia1问好。	Give my best to your family.
看清	距离六英里以外的东西很难kan4qing1.	At a distance of six miles you can't see much.
伤疤	那次事故後她的腿上留下了shang1ba1。	The accident left a scar on her leg.
框	我的眼镜kuang4断了！	My eyeglass frame is broken!
取笑	qu3xiao4一个瞎子是残忍的。	It's cruel to make fun of a blind man.
后者	珍和玛丽是好朋友，前者是老师，hou4zhe3是护士。	Jane and Mary are good friends; the former is a teacher, the latter is a nurse.
招募	我们难以zhao1mu4到素质好的职员。	We are having difficulties in recruiting well-qualified staff.
控告	控诉，申诉指控或kong4gao4的一部分，针对被控方起着极重要的作用	The part of a charge or an accusation that weighs most substantially against the accused.
黑白	多数旧电影片都是hei1-bai2的.	Most old films were made in black and white.
出错	我的判断经常chu1cuo4，但是我对祖国的忠诚是无可置疑的。	My judgement was frequently faulty, but my loyalty to the nation could not be questioned.
触摸	油漆未乾--请勿chu4mo1.	Fresh paint please do not touch.
坦克	我们需要多调些tan3ke4到前线.	We need to bring up more tanks.
重重	我对是否接受那项工作顾虑chong2chong2。	I have many misgivings about taking the job.
橙汁	一杯cheng2zhi1饮料没有什么营养。	There's not much sustenance in a glass of orange squash.
名称	对任何一件东西都要以正确的ming2cheng1来称呼的人，几乎不可能走过马路而不被人作为共同的敌人来打倒的吧。	A man that should call everything by its right name, would hardly pass the streets without being knocked down as a common enemy.
彩	抽cai3仪式星期六举行.	The draw for the raffle takes place on Saturday.
信用	首次订购时，本人将提供xin4yong4照会资料给您。	My credit references will be provided if you can make an initial order.
头盔	摩托车手必须戴tou2kui1保护自己免受伤害。	Motorcyclists must wear helmets to shield them from injury.
衡量	预先测试为heng2liang2学生是否已有足够的准备去进行更高一级的学习而举行的初步考试	A preliminary test given to determine whether students are sufficiently prepared for a more advanced course of studies.
沟	汽车冲出路面，陷进gou1里。	The car careered off the road into a ditch.
看作	恶毒女人被kan4zuo4邪恶和诡诈的妇女	A woman who is regarded as evil and scheming.
最为	那肖像是他zui4wei2珍贵的东西.	The portrait was his proudest possession.
开业	这位推销员干得非常成功，到后来，他脱离公司自行kai1ye4。	The salesman was so successful that in the end he hived from the firm into his own business.
花钱	如果她没有无节制地hua1qian2，她亡夫的遗产是够她晚年用的。	The dowry will be enough for her old age had she not spent it irrationally.
课堂	老师在这类ke4tang2活动中起着十分积极的作用。	The teacher plays a very active part in this type of classroom activity.
将要	老师说他jiang1yao4从我们中选一个人作他的助手。	The teacher said that he would like to choose an assistant among us.
条子	有人给你留下这张tiao2zi5.	Someone left you this note/left this note for you.
激光	但是能否以这样的方法把ji1guang1发展到可以在空，凤摧毁进攻的导弹呢？	But can laser beams be developed in such a way to destroy attacking missiles in space?
两者	社会是由形形色色的人组成。有些人很好，有些人很坏，也有些人介乎liang3zhe3之间。	Society is made up of a variety of people; some are good, others (are) bad, and still others (are) in between.
保健	他对于bao3jian4食品有他自己的一套奇怪的看法。	He has a bee in his bonnet about health foods.
是不是	你们shi4bu5shi4都得到了公平的一份了?	Have you all had a fair whack?
要不然	你得去上班了, yao4bu5ran2就要失去这份工作了.	You must go to work or ,else you'll lose your job.
笼子	他们隔著long2zi5的栏杆用尖东西捅那动物.	They prodded (at) the animal through the bars of its cage.
潜在	她在他们三人中最敏感, 首先意识到他们处境的qian2zai4危险.	The most perceptive of the three, she was the first to realize the potential danger of their situation.
军官	那jun1guan1於星期日晚上报到销假.	The officer reported back from leave on Sunday night.
好在	他来看我时，我幸好hao3zai4家。	Luckily I was at home when he called.
饮酒	yin3jiu3过度的人常常失去记忆。	Alcoholics often suffer from periods of oblivion.
删	编辑shan1除了（文章的）最後一段.	The editor deleted the last paragraph (from the article).
无关紧要	联邦政府的官员们对他大加排挤，他已经成为wu2guan1-jin3yao4的人了。	He had been so harried by the Federal officers that he had faded off the map.
手册	计算机shou3ce4将告诉你如何连接打印机线	The computer manual will tell you how to attach a line printer.
朦胧	meng2long2中她只看见树木的轮廓.	She could see only the outline(s) of the trees in the dim light.
有点儿	她说的话听起来you3dian3r5虚伪.	Her remarks savour of hypocrisy.
妖怪	渔民和水手有时声称看到过海里的yao1guai4。	Fishermen and sailors sometimes claim to have seen monsters in the sea.
十六	他的名字在名单上排第shi2liu4名。	His name is the sixteenth on the list.
毯子	他躺在铺上，身上盖了一大堆tan3zi5。	He lay in his bunk under a mound of blankets.
英格兰	华兹华斯从风景优美的Ying1ge2lan2湖区获得灵感. 那地方是他灵感的巨大源泉.	Wordsworth found (his) inspiration in/drew (his) inspiration from the Lake District scenery. It was a great source of inspiration to him.
热气	re4qi4经白色的沙面反射形成了蜃景.	The heat reflected from the white sand formed a mirage.
导师	她的dao3shi1说她进步很大.	Her tutor says she is making good progress.
面粉	我们用他给我们带来的mian4fen3做了一些面包。	We made some bread with the flour he bought for us.
花瓶	这hua1ping2底部没有那几个小斑点就十全十美了.	This vase would be perfect but for a few small flaws in its base.
剥夺	bo1duo2了他的全部财产.	He was stripped of all his possessions.
牧场	mu4chang3上的马不断受马蝇滋扰.	The horses in the meadow were being pestered by flies.
苦难	她的脸上带著受过ku3nan4的深深的痕迹.	Her face bore the deep imprint of suffering.
少量	shao3liang4津贴很少一部分金钱补助、工资或津贴	A meager monetary allowance, wage, or remuneration.
马车	现今人们旅行都坐汽车，而不使用ma3che1。	Nowadays people travel in cars rather than carriages.
迪克	Di2ke4摊开了一幅地图。	Dick spread out a map.
墙壁	我不得不买些白色的乳状漆来粉刷qiang2bi4。	I have to buy some white emulsion paint to freshen the walls.
虚构	我这篇小说中所有的地点和人物都是xu1gou4的.	All the places and characters in my novel are entirely fictitious.
职员	经理敦促年纪较大的zhi2yuan2提前退休。	The manager urged older staff to take up early retirement.
处在	国家chu3zai4危急的状态中。	The country is in a desperate state.
羞愧	惭愧的，xiu1kui4的	Humiliated or ashamed.
难题	交通拥挤是许多旧城镇的nan2ti2。	Heavy traffic poses a problem in many old towns.
教导	与其说给人面包很有帮助，倒不如说jiao4dao3他如何谋生才重要。	It is not so helpful to give someone some bread as to teach him how to make a living.
吓唬	我不相信他真会按他威胁的话去做, 他不过xia4hu5（我们）罢了.	I don't believe he'd really do what he threatens he's only bluffing (us).
淀粉	葛粉从这些植物中提取的食用dian4fen3	An edible starch made from these plants.
无家可归	无知的孩子们有时会嘲笑乞丐和wu2 jia1 ke3 gui1的人。	Ignorant children sometimes laugh at beggars and tramps.
茶馆	cha2guan3里有个人在非常自负地侃政治。	A man in the teahouse was laying the law down on politics.
爪子	猫有锋利的zhua3zi5。	Cats have sharp claws.
碳	焦炭的主要成分是tan4。	Coke consists mainly of carbon.
成年	你已经cheng2nian2了, 这些问题要自己解决。	Since you are already of age now, you should solve the problems by yourself.
一块儿	别都挤在yi1kuai4r5, 分开坐吧.	Don't all sit together, spread yourselves out.
长寿	chang2shou4饮食法的饮食主要是含胚芽和麸的谷物及豆类。	Macrobiotic adhere to a diet consist primarily of whole grains and bean.
存款	允许你每月从帐户中提取两次cun2kuan3.	You are allowed to make two withdrawals a month from the account.
西北	游客们开车向xi1bei3而去。	The tourists drove northwest.
习惯性	抽筋肌肉xi2guan4xing4或过分活动引起的局部暂时性麻痹	A temporary partial paralysis of habitually or excessively used muscles.
运转	彗星象行星一样绕太阳yun4zhuan3，然而其轨道呈狭长的椭圆形。	Comets move around the sun like planets, but in long oval course.
侵入	细菌会qin1ru4有机体。	Germs may invade the organism.
场地	在这个建筑物里chang3di4面积十分昂贵.	Space is at a premium in this building.
墓地	他的遗体埋葬在教堂的mu4di4里.	His mortal remains are buried in the churchyard.
对了	请问我搞dui4le5吗?	Have I got it right, please?
篮	宴会上，大家吃掉了好几lan2水果。	Several baskets of fruit were eaten at the party.
探险	这种冒险成分更给tan4xian3活动平添几分乐趣.	The element of risk gave (an) added zest to the adventure.
换成	约翰储蓄10分钱的储蓄券，一直到他有足够的钱才huan4cheng225元的公债券。	John saved10 cent savings stamps until he had enough to exchange for a$25bond.
来信	她几个星期也琢磨不透他那封奇怪的lai2xin4.	She's been puzzling over his strange letter for weeks.
群体	心理记录表一种个人或qun2ti3的性格特征的图示或图表	A graphic representation or chart of the personality traits of an individual or a group.
咒语	zhou4yu3将青蛙和老鼠又变回成了人。	The magic spell changed the frogs and rats back into men.
沙子	他往土里掺了些sha1zi5以提高渗水性能。	He added sand to the soil to make it more porous.
剩余	巴西有很多sheng4yu2咖啡。	Brazil has a big surplus of coffee.
有毒	抗毒素是抵抗you3du2物质并防止其产生有害作用的物质。	Antitoxin is substance that acts against a poisonous substance and prevents it from having a harmful effect.
下课	xia4ke4后，班长把练习册收了起来。	The monitor collected the exercise books after the class was over.
金牌	她在今年奥运会女子马拉松赛跑中赢得jin1pai2.	She won the gold medal in the women's marathon at this year's Olympic Games.
联赛	赢得总统杯以后，球队满怀信心地迎接lian2sai4的冠亚军决赛。	Having won the President Cup, the team got their tails up for the final of the league championship.
诉说	他近来一直su4shuo1自己患了失眠和头痛症。	Lately he has been moaning about his insomnia and headache.
缓慢	卸货的过程很huan3man4.	Unloading the cargo was a slow process.
淹死	他们几乎被水yan1si3。	They came near being drowned.
出院	他星期五要chu1yuan4了.	He's coming out of hospital on Friday.
列宁	马克思Lie4ning2主义马克思主义的延伸，包含了Lie4ning2的帝国主义是资本主义的最终表现形式的理论，并指出了斗争中心从发达国家到不发达国家的转移	The expansion of Marxism to include both Lenin's concept of imperialism as the final form of capitalism and a shift in the focus of struggle from the developed to the underdeveloped countries.
何不	我们he2bu4开瓶香槟酒庆祝一下呢？	Why don't we crack open a bottle of champagne to celebrate?
适用	安全驾驶之规则shi4yong4于每个人。	The rules of safe driving apply to everyone.
卷入	警方正在调查他juan3ru4那桩罪行的可能性。	The police are investigating his possible involvement in the crime.
用于	十二宫图yong4yu2占星术中预测未来。	The zodiac is used in astrology to predict the future.
逊	杰xun4看到我, 立即从马上下来。	Jason saw me and got off the horse immediately.
对外	酒吧dui4wai4营业.	The bar is open to non-residents.
恰恰	qia4qia4就在我登上公共汽车踏板的时候，车子开动了。	At the precise moment that I put my foot on the step, the bus started.
债务	所有zhai4wu4均已合并.	All the debts have been consolidated.
百万富翁	他不穷, 相反, 他是个bai3wan4 fu4weng1。	He is not poor, on the contrary, he is a millionaire.
更为	在现代战争中，机动性和先进武器比人多势众geng4wei2重要。	In modern warfare, mobility and sophisticated weapons are more important than weight of numbers.
发热	锯原木这工作干起来浑身fa1re4。	Sawing logs is warm work.
出轨	有一棵树横在铁轨上, 造成机车chu1gui3.	The engine was derailed by a tree lying across the line.
撤	与其che4约还不如延期装运。	Better to postpone the shipment than to cancel the contract.
电线	dian4xian4快磨破了，使用起来可能有危险。	The electric wire is fraying and could be dangerous to handle.
转动	我看见他把钥匙插进锁孔、 zhuan3dong4钥匙, 然後打开了门.	I saw him put the key in the lock, turn it and open the door.
游荡	经济萧条时期，有好几百万的失业者在街头you2dang4。	During the depression, millions of the unemployed wandered around in the streets.
明亮	她的孩子有一双美丽而ming2liang4的蓝眼睛。	Her baby has bonny and bright blue eyes.
涉嫌	警方已编制了she4xian2者名单.	The police have compiled a list of suspects.
肥胖	那件紧身套头毛衣反更突出了他那fei2pang4的肚子.	The tight jumper only accentuated his fat stomach.
在内	应参加诉讼的当事人的不参预应该被包括zai4nei4作为一宗诉论或诉案的一部分的一方。原告、被告或诉讼的案件不履行法律责任	Omission of a party, plaintiff, defendant, or cause of action that should have been included as a part of an action or a suit.
艺术品	所有的yi4shu4pin3中, 我最喜欢那幅油画。	Of all these works of art, the thing I like most is that painting.
以防万一	我把一切东西都锁在保险箱里yi3fang2-wan4yi1。	I took the precaution of locking everything in the safe.
行星	天体要素在古代和中古时代被认为是充满于月球空间并且是构成恒星和xing2xing1的元素	The element believed in ancient and medieval civilizations to fill all space above the sphere of the moon and to compose the stars and planets.
好意	他不断要求我们帮助他，过分利用了我们对他的hao3yi4。	His constant requests for help taxed our goodwill.
持有	在某些国家，凡是同政府chi2you3不同意见的人都被视为罪犯。	In some countries, people who disagree with the government are classed as criminals.
东部	日本在亚洲的dong1bu4。	Japan is in the east of Asia.
日本人	那个加拿大籍Ri4ben3ren2两种语言都精通。	The Canadian-Japanese is at home in both languages.
合唱	休息之後我们继续排练he2chang4节目.	We continued to rehearse/continued rehearsing the chorus after the break.
图画	tu2hua4里有一间带篱笆的小房子。	There is a house with wattle fence in the picture.
城镇	cheng2zhen4的那部分对游客完全没有吸引力。	That part of the town is completely void of interest for visitors.
春季	chun1ji4出口商品交易会在5月15日于广州闭幕。	The Spring Export Commodities Fair closed in Guangzhou on May15.
伸手	我shen1shou3到桌子那端去拿果酱.	I reached across the table for the jam.
开关	他用手指摸到了灯的kai1guan1.	His questing fingers found the light switch.
碰见	今天早上我在超级市场peng4jian4了一个老同学。	I ran into an old schoolfriend at the supermarket this morning.
议会	他在选举中失去了yi4hui4中的席位。	He lost his seat in the Parliament at the election.
把戏	别担心，已经有人告诉了我他们所有的鬼ba3xi4。	Don't worry. I've been put up to all their tricks.
无须	观点十分明确, wu2xu1解释.	The proposition is so clear that it needs no explanation.
虚弱	他xu1ruo4得连手都抬不起来。	He was too weak even to lift his hand.
冲出	大浪在堤上chong1chu1一个缺口.	The huge waves made a breach in the sea wall.
特此	我te4ci3宣布，她当选了。	I hereby declare her elected.
咖喱	你可以尝尝这道ga1li2菜，看看够不够辣。	You can taste the curry to see if it's hot enough.
早年	摩飞回顾他zao3nian2的奋斗，使他觉得生命特别充满生气。	Murphy looked back on his early struggles as having made him feel especially alive.
奋战	亨利英勇fen4zhan4，可是打败了。	Henry put up a good fight, but was beaten.
日语	我的Ri4yu3相当差。	My knowledge of Japanese is rather poor.
往年	今年的春季会较wang3nian2来得晚，因为天气一直还这么冷。	Spring will be a backward season this year, for the weather has all along been so cold.
人身	这事可能发生在任何ren2shen1上。	It can happen to anyone.
扫除	我今天在厨房里做了一阵sao3chu2, 现在确实乾净了.	I had a blitz on the kitchen today, and now it's really clean.
香皂	动物脂可以用来做xiang1zao4。	Tallow can be used for making soap.
洗衣机	她送给我们一台xi3yi1ji1.	She gave us a washing-machine.
伤亡	shang1-wang2太大, 我们不得不撤退。	We have to draw off because of losses of forces.
通告	这项tong1gao4证明了我的猜疑属实.	The announcement confirmed my suspicions.
有益	体育运动you3yi4健康。	Athletic sports are good to the health.
物体	太阳很低时, wu4ti3的影子就很长.	Shadows are longer when the sun is low in the sky.
餐桌	我把打碎的盘子藏在can1zhuo1后面了。	I hid the broken plate behind the table.
日夜	外科医生们正在ri4ye4工作以抢救他的生命。	Surgeons are working round the clock to save his life.
介入	出于个人利益考虑, 男子开始jie4ru4女子的工作领域。	Men begin to enter female jobs out of consideration for personal interest.
早期	射石炮zao3qi1发射石弹大炮的一种	An early form of cannon that fired stone balls.
举止	他的粗鲁的ju3zhi3使每个人震惊。	His coarse manners shocked everyone.
分成	他们把那栋房屋fen1cheng2许多套住房。	They divided the house into flats.
常规	从属地位的人或物组织的从属组成部分，实行必要的但通常是次要的或chang2gui1的功能	A subordinate member of an organization who performs necessary but usually minor or routine functions.
富人	他们要制止fu4ren2掠夺穷人。	They would stop the rich from robbing the poor.
成千上万	暴风给cheng2qian1-shang4wan4的人带来灾难。	The cyclone brought misery to thousands of people.
召集	那些股东被zhao4ji2去叁加股东大会。	The shareholders were summoned to a general meeting.
就绪	举行典礼的大厅尚未完全布置好, 但到时候定能准备jiu4xu4.	The hall isn't quite ready for the ceremony yet, but it will be all right on the night.
拉丁	La1ding1语系, 例如法语, 意大利语, 都起源于La1ding1语。	The Roman languages such as French, Italian, are all derived from Latin.
黄油	huang2you2从冰箱中取出会变软.	The butter will soften out of the fridge.
激素	植物生长素一种调节多种功能，包括细胞伸长的植物ji1su4	Any of several plant hormones that regulate various functions, including cell elongation.
朝着	猫悄悄地chao2zhe5老鼠爬过去。	The cat was creeping silently towards the mouse.
遗弃	被配偶yi2qi4是离婚的理由吗？	Does desertion ground for divorce?
无所事事	wu2 suo3 shi4 shi4的享乐很快就使人厌烦了。	The pleasures of idleness soon cloy.
穷人	他们为qiong2ren2准备了米，面及其它各种食物。	They prepared rice, flour and sundry other items of food for the poor.
面对面	我们要mian4dui4mian4的研究一下这种情况。	We must discuss the situation eyeball to eyeball.
才能	她不得不低下头cai2neng2穿过低矮的门口。	She had to duck her head to get through the low doorway.
结冰	水在摄氏零度jie2bing1。	Water freezes at 0 Celsius degree.
看穿	我kan4chuan1了他的阴谋。	I saw through his plot.
听众	我是一名广播电台的ting1zhong4。	I am a broadcasting auditor.
耻辱	他是那个团的chi3ru3。	He was a dishonor to his regiment.
北部	这条溪谷在英格兰的bei3bu4。	The dale is in the north of England.
远处	除了yuan3chu4的零星的小冲突之外，这个地区是和平的。	This area is peaceful except for a few skirmishes in the distance.
每当	mei3dang1谈到我开车违章判罪问题时，我妻子忍不住要以此事当面责备我。	Every time the subject of my motoring conviction comes up my wife can't help throwing it in my face.
班长	ban1zhang3把试卷分发给同学们。	The monitor handed the papers out to the classmates.
联合国	这机构得到Lian2he2guo2的资助。	The organization is backed by the UN.
橙色	那种鸟雄鸟的喙呈cheng2se4, 与雌鸟不同.	The male's orange beak differentiates it from the female.
翻身	你翻fan1shen1, 就容易睡著了.	If you turn over you might find it easier to get to sleep.
河流	他们担心he2liu2会发洪水。	They were fearful that the river would flood.
起立	听众全体qi3li4向演讲者欢呼.	The audience rose bodily to cheer the speaker.
玩耍	你可以看到小孩在河对岸wan2shua3。	You can see children playing on the other side of the river.
毛线	她递给我一绞mao2xian4。	She passed me a skein of wool.
雇用	gu4yong4了没参加工会的工人以结束罢工行动.	Non-union labour was used to end the strike.
暗杀	他被an4sha1者的近距离开枪打死。	He was mowed down by the assassin at point-blank range.
优质	这家商号是you1zhi4的保证.	The firm is a byword for excellence.
征兆	这次暴动可看作是政治上不稳定的zheng1zhao4。	The riot can be considered a symptom of political instability.
首相	听你谈话（那口气），我还以为你是shou3xiang4呢。	To hear you talk, I'd think you were Prime Minister.
奇特	这个模型是由球和杆组成的结构, 样子很qi2te4.	The model is an odd-looking structure of balls and rods.
伏特	伏安法功率单位，等于一fu2te4和一安培的乘积，等于一瓦特	A unit of electric power equal to the product of one volt and one ampere, equivalent to one watt.
找寻	形而上学，等于为我们本能地相信的东西zhao3xun2无谓的理由。	Metaphysics is the finding of bad reasons for what we believe on instinct.
看样子	她kan4 yang4zi5随时都可能垮下来.	She looked ready to collapse at any minute.
报导	新闻最近事件的信息，特别是通过报纸、期刊、广播和电视进行bao4dao3	Information about recent events or happenings, especially as reported by newspapers, periodicals, radio, or television.
各地	你应该多到ge4di4走走以增广见识.	You should broaden your experience by travelling more.
着陆	那个驾驶员设法让滑翔机zhuo2lu4到一个安全的地方。	The pilot managed to land the glider on a safe place.
火力	士兵们遭到近距离的huo3li4射击。	The soldiers got fired into at close quarters.
恰好	那qia4hao3符合我们的需要。	That answers precisely to our need.
大半	请挪过去一点，你占了da4ban4张凳子啦。	Move up, please; you are taking up more than half the bench.
妒忌	他虽然表面上很有礼貌地同他同事打招呼，但心里却充满了du4ji4。	He greeted his companion politely enough, but inside he was smouldering with jealousy.
简洁	简介给予或接受jian3jie2的预备性的指令、信息或忠告的行为或步骤	The act or procedure of giving or receiving concise preparatory instructions, information, or advice.
监禁	这名罪犯被判处一年jian1jin4。	The criminal was sentenced to one year's imprisonment.
折扣	与其给zhe2kou4，不如减价。	Better reduce the price than allow a discount.
皇宫	我们趁便参观了huang2gong1.	We took the opportunity of visiting the palace.
船员	住舱区一个适合或被配给的住所或场所，如在军舰上配给军官和chuan2yuan2的	A proper or assigned station or place, as for officers and crew on a warship.
气体	空气是qi4ti3的混合物。	Air is a mixture of gases.
接管	该公司已被美国一企业集团jie1guan3。	The firm has been taken over by an American conglomerate.
推动	tui1dong4的，原动力的引起或产生行动的	Causing or producing motion.
打碎	我打开了邮件，惊讶地发现了一个da3sui4的花瓶。	I opened my mail and was surprised to see a broken vase.
高中生	这本书太难而不适合大多数的gao1zhong1sheng1。	The book is too difficult for most senior high school students.
切除	她已住院去qie1chu2阑尾.	She's gone into hospital to have her appendix taken out.
痛恨	我tong4hen4铺张浪费的行政机关。	I hate the prodigal administration.
贞德	zhen1de2在1429年率大军解除了英军对奥尔良的围攻。	Joan of Arc led a large army to raise the siege of Orleans in1429.
称作	诗歌、小说和剧本的写作常常被cheng1zuo4创作。	The writing of poems, stories or plays is often called creative writing.
芭蕾	该ba1lei3舞蹈学校给有特殊天赋的儿童提供免费学习的机会.	The ballet school offers free places to children who are exceptionally talented.
漆黑	他在qi1hei1的电影院里被什么人的脚绊了一下，差点儿摔倒了。	He tripped over someone's foot in the darkened cinema and almost fell.
阁楼	这间ge2lou2是用来存放东西的。	The loft is used for storing things.
无穷	正数的数目是wu2qiong2的。	The number of positive numbers is infinite.
皱	因空气干燥皮子都zhou4了。	The dry air shrivels the leather.
山上	直布罗陀岩shan1 shang4有许多洞穴.	The Rock of Gibraltar is honeycombed with caves.
国度	穆斯林guo2du4信奉伊斯兰教的民族或国家；穆斯林世界	The people or nations that practice Islam; the Moslem world.
林肯	亚伯拉罕·Lin2ken3，这位美国人民所爱戴的总统，与人民群众的联系始终很密切。	Abraham Lincoln, the president loved by American people was always close to the people.
车道	不要偏离che1dao4--这一带沼泽地多.	Keep to the track the moor is very boggy around here.
投资者	给予tou2zi1zhe3的建议是以利率将继续下降这一点为前提的.	Advice to investors was based on the premise that interest rates would continue to fall.
月球	如果太阳光不照射到yue4qiu2上，那就没有月光了。	If the sun does not shine on the moon, there will be no moonlight.
莫斯科	政府已与Mo4si1ke1签了一项条约。	The Government has signed a treaty with Moscow.
植入	文化移入从婴儿起一特定社会的文化就zhi2ru4一个人大脑的过程	The process by which the culture of a particular society is instilled in a human being from infancy onward.
天花板	tian1hua1ban3坍塌了, 碎砖破瓦掉落到了屋里.	The ceiling collapsed and rubble poured into the room.
整夜	他zheng3ye4不断呻吟.	He was moaning (away) all night long.
建筑物	酷热使jian4zhu4wu4上的油漆起了浮泡。	The heat had blistered the paint of the building.
特质	宽大是他最主要的te4zhi4。	Generosity is his first attribute.
有钱人	她嫁给了一个you3qian2ren2。	She married money.
海洛因	他在向小学生贩卖hai3luo4yin1时被捕.	He was caught pushing heroin to schoolchildren.
料到	我没liao4dao4他会堕落到对我进行人身攻击的地步。	I didn't expect him to descend to personal abuse.
悬	细绳上xuan2的珠子	Beads on a string.
倒是	要是不给你添太多麻烦的话，我dao4shi4愿意留下来。	I'd like to stay if it's not too much of an imposition on you.
老年	lao3nian2疾病通长都不是起於外因的。	Disorders of old age are generally not exogenous.
比分	bi3fen1是四平.	The score was four all.
骆驼	在动物园我看见了两只小luo4tuo5。	I saw two small camels in the zoo.
登上	他们在恶劣的天气条件下deng1shang4了山的顶峰。	They climbed up the last part of the mountain in formidable weather conditions.
军方	jun1fang1发动了一场政变.	The army staged a coup (d'etat).
牙刷	我发现有人用过我的ya2shua1，我很不高兴。	I am aggrieved to find that someone has used my toothbrush.
飓风	由于没有适当的导航援助，飞行员不了解周围气候的变化情况，将飞机直接飞入了热带ju4feng1眼内。	Not having proper navigational aids the pilot had been unaware of the changing conditions and had flown the plane right into the eye of the tropical storm.
劳资	lao2-zi1双方之间存在大量矛盾.	There is a great deal of friction between the management and the work force.
灯泡	我可以很清楚地看到deng1pao4里的细丝断了。	I can see clearly that the filament in the bulb is broken.
院长	主管人，尤指大学校长或学院yuan4zhang3	A president, especially of a college or university.
好过	因为她的工作一向是她生命的支柱，所以退休后日子很不hao3guo4.	Because her job had been the pivot of her life, retirement was very difficult.
人力	我怀疑他们是否真有足够的ren2li4。	I doubt whether they really have sufficient manpower.
三月	这个学期san1yue4一日开始。	This term will begin on March 1st.
编排	请用传真机把新目录的版面bian1pai2图样传送给我.	Please fax me the layout for the new catalogue.
犯规	他因为动作fan4gui1而被裁判记下姓名。	He was booked by the referee for foul play.
亚历山大	我的名字叫Ya4li4shan1da4，简称“亚尔”。	My name is Alexander,""Al"" for short.
粉红色	这张古董桌子卖给那位戴fen3hong2se4帽子的女士了.	The antique table went to the lady in the pink hat.
枪支	他因非法贩卖qiang1zhi1而被捕。	He is arrested for the illegal sale of gun.
敢于	他是个gan3yu2思考的人，富有创新观点。	He is a bold thinker, with lots of original ideas.
雕像	该diao1xiang4大小为实体的两倍。	The statue is twice life-size.
球赛	比尔不肯参加qiu2sai4，因为他知道他的球艺不好，而他又爱面子。	Bill would not play in the game because he knew he could not do well and he wanted to save face.
史密斯	shi3 mi4 si1先生在政府的行政部门工作。	Mr. Smith works in an executive branch of the government.
签约	他们拒绝qian1yue1，从而使我们的处境有些困难。	Their refusal to sign the contract has put us in a bit of a bind.
十月	因我们订购的是季节性商品，贵方务必于shi2yue4前装运，不然我们就赶不上季节了。	Be sure to ship the goods before October as what we ordered is seasonal goods. Otherwise we will not be able to catch the season.
冷冻	你是把水果装在罐里保存呢，还是leng3dong4起来保存？	Do you bottle your fruit or freeze it?
损害	他屡次失败使他的声誉受到很大sun3hai4。	His failures did his reputation a lot of harm.
来年	哦，好吧，这就是人生吧。总还有lai2nian2。	Oh, well, such is life. there's always next year.
战友	他们埋葬了他们亲爱的zhan4you3。	They interred their dear comrade in the arms.
外人	别客气，我又不是wai4ren2。	Don't stand on ceremony. I'm no stranger.
眼中	她yan3zhong1流露出调皮的神情.	There was mischief in her eyes.
打斗	在da3dou4中为了自卫把人打死是一回事，残酷无情地开枪杀人是另一回事。	It's one thing to kill a man in a fight, in self-defence, another to shoot him in cold blood.
退缩	当别人注意他时，他就会tui4suo1一旁。	He had a tendency to shrink up whenever attention was focused on him.
订单	如果我们不把价格压低，就甭想拿到ding4dan1。	If we do not keep the price down, go bang our chance of get the order.
汽水	我不喝酒, 给我来杯qi4shui3吧.	I won't have any wine; I'll just have (a) soda water.
发动机	fa1dong4ji1发出一阵轧轧声, 随即停了下来.	The engine gave forth a grinding noise, then stopped.
手镯	这个shou3zhuo2是纯金的吗？	Is this bracelet genuine gold?
转向	公众舆论的趋向看来是zhuan3xiang4不利于政府的方向。	The tide of public opinion seems to be turning against the government.
嚷嚷	别冲我rang1rang5。	Don't shout at me.
书包	她把shu1bao1了起来.	She parcelled up the books.
骑马	他qi2ma3去森林了。	He went to the forest on horseback.
地带	在多石di4dai4缓慢地颠簸前进	Bumped along slowly over the rocky terrain.
电器	教堂里太挤了，所以只好用dian4qi4设备向人转播礼拜仪式。	The church was crowded, so electrical machinery was used to relay the service out to the people.
特产	该饭店展示了一些具有代表性的本地te4chan3。	The hotel displays a representative selection of lovely make product.
记忆力	不要相信他的ji4yi4li4－－他有点神不守舍的。	Don't rely on his memory he's a bit of a dreamer.
手掌	他用shou3zhang3揉了揉前额.	He rubbed his palm across his forehead.
要紧	有yao4jin3的事把他叫走了。	Something urgent has called him away.
拦住	律师在离开办公室时被记者lan2zhu5了。	The lawyer was collared by some journalists as he left his office.
一口气	当我们听说他们平安无事时，都松了yi1kou3qi4。	We all heaved a sigh of relief when we heard that they were safe.
选中	在明年的重xuan3zhong4她参加竞选。	She comes up for re-election next year.
海湾	我看到两个小孩正在一个小hai3wan1里玩耍。	I saw two children were playing in a cove.
潜意识	动作倒错，失误动作一种如口误等被认为能揭示qian2yi4shi2动机的小错误	A minor error, such as a slip of the tongue, thought to reveal a subconscious motive.
用尽	士兵在那场战斗中yong4jin4了所有的弹药。	The soldiers expended all their ammunition in that fight.
鲜血	xian1xue4从伤口中流出.	Blood was welling(out) from the wound.
衣物	晚上在照明很差的路上行走, 应该穿显眼的yi1wu4.	If you're walking along a badly-lit road at night you should wear conspicuous clothes.
致死	致命的；zhi4si3的易引起死亡的；致命的	Tending to cause death; deadly.
失常	心律shi1chang2不规则的心跳强度或节奏	An irregularity in the force or rhythm of the heartbeat.
法子	这次聚会一定没意思--咱们想个fa3zi5别去了.	It's bound to be a boring party let's try to wangle out of it/going.
从小	她cong2xiao3就想当演员.	She's wanted to go on the stage from an early age.
气愤	他认为那些指责皆属不实之词，因而十分qi4fen4。	He was terribly indignant at what he saw as false accusation.
分类	我们只有fen1lei4菜单.	We only have an a la carte menu.
指向	罗盘的指针永远zhi3xiang4北方.	A compass needle points (to the) north.
浮现	那座巨大的岛屿隐隐约约fu2xian4在地平线上。	The mountainous island loomed on the horizon.
宣言	xuan1yan2，公告官方或权威性的宣布；公告或法令	An official or authoritarian declaration; a proclamation or an edict.
强行	他被警察拘捕，控以qiang2xing2进入他人住宅的罪名。	He was held by the police or a charge of breaking and entering.
扳机	点射由于扣动ban1ji1而从自动武器中射出的一定数量的子弹	The number of bullets fired from an automatic weapon by one pull of the trigger.
激怒	ji1nu4挑衅或煽动的行动	The act of provoking or inciting.
致富	【谚】妒忌决不会zhi4fu4。	Envy never enriched any man.
数目	一小笔少量，微不足道的shu4mu4	A small, trifling sum.
野生	很多种ye3sheng1兰越来越罕见了.	Many kinds of wild orchid are becoming rare.
锤子	她用chui2zi5猛击箱子.	She smashed the hammer down onto the box.
羽毛	这只鸟的头顶上有一小簇红色的yu3mao2。	The bird has a tuft of red feathers on top of its head.
狗屎	便道上满是gou3shi3.	The pavement was covered in dogs' excrement.
从头	有些工程师认为，既然为这一系统起作用已付出如此巨大的努力，明智的做法是短期内将这项工作继续下去，而不是cong2tou2再来。	Some engineers take the view that since so much effort has been put into making this system work it would be sensible in the short term to continue the same line rather than start afresh.
江西	比如说Jiang1xi1吧。	Take Jiangxi for example.
愈合	伤口渐渐yu4he2。	The wound gradually scarred over.
跃	战士们为取得胜利而欢yue4。	The soldiers exulted at their victory.
草坪	请勿践踏cao3ping2。	Keep off the grass.
颠覆	他们这些dian1fu4性的思想是对我们年轻人的精神污染。	They are contaminating the minds of our young people with these subversive ideas.
引诱	他无法抵抗漂亮的女招待的yin3you4。	He can't resist the allure of the pretty waitress.
传闻	部长拒绝就他辞职一事的chuan2wen2发表评论。	The minister refused to comment on the rumors of his resignation.
车队	敌人袭击了我们的运货马che1dui4。	The enemy attacked our wagon train.
周刊	这期的zhou1kan1上有一篇有趣的文章。	There is an interesting article in this weekly.
扫地	他停止sao3di4，倚着扫帚休息。	He stopped sweeping and rested on the broom.
学者	他是第一流的xue2zhe3。	He ranks high as a scholar.
德语	把De2yu3课本翻到第28页。	Open your German readers at page 28.
一旁	她把书放在yi1pang2, 点了一支香烟.	She set aside her book and lit a cigarette.
野外	我们决定绕远路来, 为的是看看ye3wai4的景色.	We decided to come the long way round in order to see the countryside.
血统	门第高贵的高贵xue4tong3的	Of noble lineage.
无常	草原的气候变化wu2chang2。	The climate on grassland is capricious.
美德	她是mei3de2的化身.	She's the very incarnation of goodness.
善意	北京为和台北建立联系展示shan4yi4姿态。	Beijing offers goodwill gesture to Taipei for links.
简短	她回答得太jian3duan3, 给减了分.	She was marked down because her answers were too short.
经受	他的勇气在艰难困苦中jing1shou4了严峻的考验。	His courage was severely tried by his ordeal.
海水	他们刷了一层油漆以防止船只被hai3shui3氧化。	They painted a coat of paint to prevent the oxidation of the ship by seawater.
赠	以下是他被颁zeng4一九六四年诺贝尔和平奖的过程。	What follows is the process of his being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964.
台球	连着双球的一击打tai2qiu2时的一击，主球接连撞击两球	A shot in billiards in which the cue ball successively strikes two other balls.
家中	现在就想回去，为了冷却他那急切的心，暂把他送到法国的哥哥jia1zhong1。	Now he wanted to go back, but to damp down the urge he was sent to his brother's home in France.
阿拉	a1la1上帝，尤指伊斯兰教上帝	God, especially in Islam.
不得	来城堡参观者bu4de2拍照。	Visitors to the castle are asked not to take photographs.
天性	好奇是儿童的tian1xing4。	Curiosity is part of the children's nature.
提取	榨取，ti2qu3榨取，ti2qu3的行为或被榨取的状态	The act of extracting or the condition of being extracted.
传媒	他们投产的新轿车广获chuan2mei2报道.	The launch of their new saloon received much media coverage.
腰部	这件衣服我穿yao1bu4太瘦.	The waist is too tight for me.
至极	他无礼zhi4ji2，竟然叫我傻瓜。	He was impudent enough to call me a fool.
去除	该委员会需要彻底改组，qu4chu2某些不合格的成员。	The committee needs to be shaken out to get rid of some unqualified members.
店员	dian4yuan2要轮流休息。	The shop assistants had to have their days off by turns.
副作用	这种药没有什麽不良的fu4zuo4yong4.	The drug has no undesirable side-effects.
指点	上次考试他给我zhi3dian3错了，所以我没及格。	He gave me a bum steer on the last exam that I failed.
夸奖	你前後矛盾, 开头责备我, 接著又kua1jiang3我.	You're not very consistent: first you condemn me, then you praise me.
低于	低气压区大气压di1yu2正常值的地区	A region of atmospheric pressure that is below normal.
下跌	所有经济部门都遭受到这次汇率xia4die1带来的损失。	All sector of the economy suffer from the fall in the exchange rate.
套房	我们有了孩子以后不可能再居住在单间tao4fang2里了，爹爹帮了我们大忙，把买房的定金借给了我们。	It was impossible living in a one-roomed flat after we had the baby but Dad pulled the chestnuts out of the fire by lending us the deposit for a house.
没意思	他这个人很mei2 yi4si5, 在聚会上我总是对他退避三舍.	He's so boring that I always try to give him a wide berth at parties.
有害	这件事情对社会造成了you3hai4的影响。	This event had a pernicious influence on society.
跳动	她的心脏还在tiao4dong4。	Her heart was still beating.
想不到	亿万人的收入增加了，这是他们自己做梦也xiang3bu5dao4的。	Incomes of millions upon millions of people have increased beyond their dreams.
燃料	消耗量就是以每小时加仑表示的所耗费的ran2liao4总数。	Consumption is the total amount of fuel consumed expressed in gallons per hour.
大力	她da4li4鼓吹节约是解决危机的关键。	She preached economy as the best means of solving the crisis.
多半	愚蠢的尝试duo1ban4是要失败的。	A feeble attempt is liable to fail.
松鼠	红色的song1shu3在英国已十分罕见了.	Red squirrels are now very rare in Britain.
底部	海水拍打著悬崖的di3bu4。	The sea washes the base of the cliffs.
集会	那是非法ji2hui4。	It's an unlawful assembly.
保龄球	bao3ling2qiu2道供bao3ling2qiu2滚动的木制表面的通道或球道	A wood-surfaced passageway or alley along which a bowling ball is rolled.
穆斯林	基督教教义和mu4si1lin2教义极为不同。	Christian and Muslim doctrines are very different.
叫声	不时有喜鹊的jiao4sheng1。	Now and than a magpie would call.
草原	在人们意识到应当保护自然资源的这个时代, cao3yuan2已不容再受破坏了.	In these conservation-conscious times, areas of grassland are no longer expendable.
坚果	松鼠储藏jian1guo3以防冬天。	The squirrel hoards up nuts for the winter.
蜜	mi4蜂从花中啜mi4，离开时营营地道谢。	Bees sip honey from flowers and hum their thanks when they leave.
咖啡馆	ka1fei1guan3人手不够, 所以我们不得不排队等候。	The cafeteria is short handed so we'll have to wait in line.
延误	财务上出现问题yan2wu4了我们的建设计画。	Financial problems have set back our building programme.
一部分	公社的yi1 bu4fen5土地转让给了那家工厂。	Some of the commune's land was made over to that factory.
水手	我算不上是个好shui3shou3，但我喜欢坐着我的小船在河上游玩。	I am not much of a sailor, but I like to about, in my little boat on their river.
痊愈	出院时，我已经完全quan2yu4了。	When I left the hospital I was completely cured.
芹菜	他给qin2cai4培上了土.	He earthed up the celery.
撞击	波浪zhuang4ji1著港口的墙基.	Waves dashed against the harbour wall.
直线	zhi2xian4AB与zhi2xian4CD相交於E点.	The lines AB and CD intersect at E.
流浪汉	一个liu2lang4han4来到门前讨饭吃。	A tramp come to the door and ask for food.
看守	那个犯人无人kan1shou3。	The prisoner was left unguarded.
棍子	她把gun4zi5朝里面捅了好深，可是没有动物出来。	She poked the stick in a long way, but no animal came out.
通向	直布罗陀海峡是tong1xiang4地中海的必经之路。	The straits of Gibraltar are the gate of the Mediterranean.
男孩子	那些nan2hai2zi5为几支圆珠笔而争吵起来了。	The boys were bickering over some ballpoints.
轻微	qing1wei1的肿胀或肿块	A slight swelling or lump.
主教	zhu3jiao4在仪式上为许多人施行了坚信礼.	The bishop conducted a number of confirmations at the service.
上楼	男孩很快地跑shang4lou2。	The boy ran upstairs quickly.
莎士比亚	这可不是一般的旧床--是Sha1shi4bi3ya4的.	This isn't any old bed it belonged to Shakespeare.
放出	汽车fang4chu1的废气在污染我们城市的空气。	Gases from cars are poisoning the air of our cities.
短期	他只是duan3qi1外出--至多一周.	He's only away for short periods a week at the longest.
弯曲	这块木板有点wan1qu1。	There is a warp in the board.
视为	作为那些公司的拥有者，她被shi4wei2财富的象征。	Being the owner of those corporations, she is regarded as an emblem of mammon.
小便	｀xiao3bian4＇是｀排尿＇的委婉语.	`Pass water' is a euphemism for `urinate'.
完工	这项工程提前wan2gong1。	The project was completed ahead of the schedule.
发霉	潮湿的日子里，食物很容易fa1mei2。	Foods are easily to be mouldy in humid days.
转播	请你将诗人逝世的消息zhuan3bo1给公众好吗？	Could you relay the news of the poet's death out to the public?
水面	船头划开shui3mian4前进.	The bows of the ship sliced the water.
上诉	他同意我有权shang4su4.	He allowed that I had the right to appeal.
珀	斯po4尔斯队会降为丙级队吗?	Will Spurs be relegated to the third division?
明媚	那是一个宁静、ming2mei4的早晨。	It was a beautiful morning, calm and serene.
滑冰	我喜欢hua2bing1。	I like skating.
注入	他的热情给公司zhu4ru4了新的生命。	His enthusiasm breathed new life into the company.
巫婆	wu1po2把王子变成了青蛙.	The witch changed the prince into a frog.
自行	开会时间将由班长zi4xing2决定。	The hours of the meetings will be fixed at the monitor's discretion.
插入	把植物的根cha1ru4混合肥料中.	Bed the roots in the compost.
绵羊	那只骚扰mian2yang2的狗被杀死了。	The dog that molested the sheep was killed.
挑起	他猛然从水中tiao3qi3鱼竿.	He jerked the fishing-rod out of the water.
改编	我给我儿子买了为儿童gai3bian1的莎士比亚剧本。	I bought my son an adaptation for children of a play by Shakespeare.
葫芦	他常带着一个酒hu2lu5。	He always takes a wine gourd.
研究生	他开始yan2jiu1sheng1态学，并决心将他的一生献身于这门科学。	He started to study ecology and decided to devote his whole life to the science.
稀有	熊猫现在是xi1you3动物.	The panda is now a rare animal.
使者	shi3zhe3被派去代表另一个人的利益完成某使命的人	An agent sent on a mission to represent or advance the interests of another.
大军	不断增长的失业da4jun1引起了这名经济学家的关注。	The increasing army of the unemployed has attracted the attention of the economist.
可信	我们即使有新闻自由，也并不意味著一切报道都真实ke3xin4、准确无误。	We might have a free press, but that doesn't mean all reporting is true and accurate.
风筝	那feng1zheng5在空中不断地旋转。	The kite circled round and round.
溜走	听我说－－他背着他的亲友们liu1zou3了。	Mind what I say-he has given his relatives the slip.
沿途	路线yan2tu2的标志都十分清楚.	The markings along the route are quite plain.
创建	一旦您为用户chuang4jian4了一个帐号，用户就可以进入安全域中。	As soon as you create an account for the user, the user can participate in a secure domain.
亲友	他举办盛大的宴会招待qin1you3。	He gave a grand party for friends and relations.
都会	每一个演员在临到开始表演之前du1hui4心惊“腿”震。	Every actor has cold feet just before the beginning of a show.
铭记	这样的宝贵教训应该ming2ji4在心。	Such a lesson should be treasured in our memories.
着实	他用皮带把那个孩子zhuo2shi2打了一顿。	He gave the boy a real belting.
砰	他peng1的一声盖上了盖子.	He slammed the lid down.
有机	腐生菌；腐生物一种you3ji1物，通常是细菌以死的动植物为食并把它们分解，藉此为生态系统提供you3ji1养分	An organism, often a bacterium or fungus, that feeds on and breaks down dead plant or animal matter, thus making organic nutrients available to the ecosystem.
村民	cun1min2一致反对修建旁道.	The villagers are unanimous in their opposition to the building of a bypass.
幽默感	假若认为耳聋有趣, 这种you1mo4gan3十分不当.	If you think deafness is funny, you've got a very misplaced sense of humour.
当局	一切抗议活动都遭到dang1ju2的野蛮镇压.	All protest is brutally repressed by the regime.
门外	在重要的节日, 人们把国旗悬挂在men2 wai4。	People hang national flags out on important holidays.
疫苗	在各种医药研究中, 应首先解决寻找新yi4miao2的问题.	The search for a new vaccine took priority over all other medical research.
时速	这种新型号赛车於道路测试中shi2su4达100英里.	The new sports model achieved 100 miles an hour in road tests.
差异	矛盾，不相符不符合或不一致，如在事实和宣称之间；cha1yi4	Divergence or disagreement, as between facts or claims; difference.
下令	将军xia4ling4部下攻城。	The general commanded his men to attack the city.
惊慌	她脸上流露出jing1huang1的神色	Her face registered dismay.
解答	主要活动如下: 第一项, 总裁讲话; 第二项, 秘书做jie3da2; 第三项, 主席做总结.	The main events were as follows: first, the president's speech, secondly the secretary's reply and thirdly, the chairman's summing-up.
逃犯	警方到处搜查tao2fan4。	The police searched every nook and corner for the escaped criminal.
泄漏	秘密一直没有xie4lou4。	The secret endured.
付给	他以一张欠条代替现金fu4gei3我们。	He gave us an I.O.U. in lieu of cash.
破裂	他惟恐婚姻po4lie4，把一切都告诉了妻子。	Rather than risk breaking up his marriage he told his wife everything.
挥手	她不耐烦地hui1shou3让他们走开.	She waved them away impatiently.
猎物	狮子抓住lie4wu4，把它吃了。	The lion seized its prey and ate it.
果冻	少量的guo3dong4	A dab of jelly.
棘手	这是个ji2shou3的问题。	It's a thorny subject.
不理	我恳求她帮忙, 但她完全bu4li3睬我的请求.	I begged her for help but she shut her ears to all my appeals.
镑	英国的货币单位是bang4.	The monetary unit of Great Britain is the pound.
演说	这些领导可能会走出来，打出自己的旗号，并向群众大会yan3shuo1。	The leaders may go out to show the flag and address mass rallies.
时时	警方shi2shi2警戒终有所获。	Police's vigilance was eventually rewarded.
小提琴	xiao3ti2qin2的弦上得太紧，突然断了。	The violin string snapped because it was fastened too tight.
小鸡	老鹰抓住xiao3ji1飞走了。	The hawk snatched the chicken and flew away.
自负	茶馆里有个人在非常zi4fu4地侃政治。	A man in the teahouse was laying the law down on politics.
顺着	shun4zhe5马路大约100公尺。在你左方，你会看到一栋四层楼。	Follow the road for about100 meters. You'll see a seven-story building on your leave.
破烂	他的衣服po4lan4不堪了。	His clothes were torn to rags.
丢弃	这家公司廉价出售略好一些的次品，但将大多数次品diu1qi4。	The factory sells some of its better rejects cheaply, but it throws most of the rejects away.
首领	那shou3ling3拿一些玻璃块替换了那些钻石。	The chief interchanged the diamond with some pieces of glass.
信件	请把我的xin4jian4转到我的新地址。	Please forward my mail to my new address.
动摇	他一旦下了决心就毫不dong4yao2[无法使他改变（意见）].	Once he's made up his mind, he never budges/you can never budge him (from his opinion).
精明	他的谈判技巧使他赢得了jing1ming2战略家的名声。	His skill in negotiating earned him a reputation as a shrewd tactician.
大米	我们主要的出口货是da4mi3.	Our main export is rice.
好坏	我们可以通过比较来分辨hao3-huai4。	We can only tell good from bad by comparison.
裁决	他对那个罪犯做出了cai2jue2。	He passed judgement on the guilty man.
来往	马路上lai2wang3的车辆声音不断地破坏我们家的安宁。	The noise of cars passing along the road is a continual disturbance to our quiet at home.
难关	明年做小生意将比去年更加困难，我们得更加努力工作，以便度过nan2guan1。	Next year will be more difficult for small business than last year, and we will have to work even harder to weather the storm.
体制	对于这种新ti3zhi4，你看会有什么问题吗？	Do you foresee any problems with the new system?
太平	＂这一家人在遭到不幸的车祸前，日子过得tai4ping2安宁。＂	The family had lived in peace and tranquillity before the unfortunate traffic accident.
歌迷	流行歌星总是抱怨他们受到ge1mi2的包围。	Pop stars are always moaning about being mobbed by their fans.
护送	他提出hu4song4她，但她谢绝了。	He offered to be her escort, but she declined it.
外边	你衬衫的後摆已经抻到裤子wai4bian5来了。	The back of your shirt has worked out of your trousers.
解说	导游在旅游车的前部向游客作连续的现场jie3shuo1。	The tour guide give a running commentary from the front of the coach.
悲痛	他的死对我们的工作来说是令人bei1tong4的损失。	His death is a lamentable loss of our work.
老爷	这一切都是如此；但这件事的重要性如何呢，lao3ye5？	All this is so; but what of this, my lord?
防护	加装了fang2hu4过滤器以后，这烟囟已不再散发成股的废气到大气中去了。	The chimney is no longer giving off volumes of waste gas into the atmosphere, as protective filters are being used.
晚间	这里wan3jian1没有什麽活动的迹象.	There are few signs of life here in the evenings.
进度	老板对他缓慢的jin4du4不满意。	His boss was dissatisfied with his tardy progress.
复合	fu4he2构词法将单个字组成fu4he2词的形式	The formation of compounds from separate words.
环绕	湖被树木huan2rao4。	The lake is encircled by trees.
打劫	毁船da3jie2者引诱船只失事的人，如通过在多岩石的海岸线上打信号灯，以掠夺其财物	One who lures a vessel to destruction, as by a display of lights on a rocky coastline, in order to plunder it.
共产党	CPC是中国gong4chan3dang3的英文名称缩写。	CPC stands for the Communist Party of China.
处方	医生开chu3fang1给病人配药。	The doctor dispensed a prescription to his patient.
无谓	我们必须避免wu2wei4的重复劳动.	We must avoid wasteful duplication of effort.
热带	西洋樱草生长于re4dai4国家吗？	Does cowslip grow in tropic countries?
雨水	鲸背甲板船一种蒸汽船，带有圆形的船头和上甲板以遮蔽yu3shui3	A steamship with the bow and upper deck rounded so as to shed water.
进程	这就是那些历史关头之一，""罗杰说：""这关头也许会改变历史的jin4cheng2。""	This is one of those moments, ""Roger said, ""which might change the course of history.""
瞎子	有人看见那xia1zi5横过街道。	The blind man was seen cross the street.
重要性	我父亲要我牢记努力工作的zhong4yao4xing4。	My father impress on me the importance of hard work.
侦察	该空军中队执行一zhen1cha2任务.	The squadron flew a reconnaissance mission.
撕裂	忧虑si1lie4他的心。	Anxiety clawed him.
勃	喂，鲍bo2。是的，这是因为线路不好。我再说大一点声音。好些了吗？	Oh, hello, Bob. Yes, the line is not very good. I'll speak a bit louder. Is that any better?
点火	她在当地的旅馆询问打听，得知罗切斯特太太在一天夜间dian3huo3烧着了房子。	Making inquiries at the local inn, she discovers that Mrs. Rochester one night succeeded in setting the house on fire.
背面	他猛然把那纸翻过来，看bei4mian4写着什么。	He flipped over the piece of paper to see what was written on the back.
霜	在一年中的这个时候，下shuang1也是可能的，虽然可能性并不大。	Frost is possible, although unlikely, at this time of year.
仙境	这个小村庄美如xian1jing4。	This village is as beautiful as the fairyland.
图纸	她把活计带到了园子里（如tu2zhi3或缝纫材料）.	She took her work (eg papers or sewing materials) with her into the garden.
轰炸	hong1zha4持续不断地进行著.	The bombardment continued without cessation.
外形	wai4xing2似镖的事物物体在形状、使用或效果上像一细长带尖的投掷物的物体	An object likened to a slender, pointed missile either in shape, use, or effect.
住房	活动zhu4fang2用汽车拖拽的住所	A trailer or dwelling place on wheels.
没完没了	他mei2wan2-mei2liao3的谈话妨碍了我的学习。	His endless talking hinders me from my study.
大规模	组织这样da4gui1mo2的聚会要花费许多时间和精力。	The organization of such a large-scale party takes a lot of time and energy.
六十	liu4shi2分等于一小时。	Sixty minutes is equal to an hour.
猎	有些lie4获的飞禽一直保存到开始变质才烹制.	Some game-birds are kept until they are high before cooking.
浓度	请把面粉和牛奶调至恰当的nong2du4。	Please mix the flour and milk to the right consistency.
担当	我们可暂时dan1dang1这项工作。	We could undertake the work for the time being.
废弃	藉新技术即能从fei4qi4物中回收可用之物。	New techniques make it possible to recover usable things from waste.
玫瑰花	mei2gui5hua1正在盛开。	The roses are blooming!
称霸	毫无疑问的他是cheng1ba4日本的高尔夫球手。	He is, without doubt, the greatest golfer in Japan.
书房	在这些孩子的眼里, 父亲的shu1fang2是最神圣的地方.	To the children, their father's study was the holy of holies.
年老	现在很多小孩都可以说是少nian2lao3成了。	Now many children can be called young but experienced.
共和党	美国的主要政党是民主党和Gong4he2dang3.	The main political parties in the United States are the Democrats and the Republicans.
物种	退化（作用）一个生物体或wu4zhong3的某种功能、特征或结构由于进化作用造成的衰退或丧失	The evolutionary decline or loss of a function, characteristic, or structure in an organism or a species.
可贵	这套程序是经理人员制订计划的ke3gui4的工具。	This program gives managers a valuable planning tool.
加重	边境上的紧张局势jia1zhong4了我们对战争的忧虑。	The serious incident along the border increased our fears of the war.
光顾	这家饭馆常有政治家和记者guang1gu4.	The restaurant is patronized by politicians and journalists.
换取	以丧失独立来huan4qu3和平是极高的代价.	Loss of independencewas a high price to pay for peace.
煤气	听到mei2qi4的嘶嘶声，他冲进来把它关掉。	Hearing the hiss of gas, he rushed in and turned it off.
蠢事	是什麽促使你做出这等chun3shi4来的?	What induced you to do such a stupid thing?
露营	男孩子们已决定下个星期去lu4ying2。	The boys have decided to go camping next week.
胡闹	别hu2nao4了，过来给我帮个忙。	Stop fucking around and come and give me a hand.
头衔	女王将爵士tou2xian2授予几位杰出人士.	The Queen conferred knighthoods on several distinguished men.
星期日	上xing1qi1ri4我新买了一个鱼竿。	I bought a new fishing rod last Sunday.
狩猎	戴安娜在希腊罗马神话中是shou4lie4女神。	Diana is the goddess of hunting in Greek and Latin mythology.
用餐	yong4can1时摆弄刀叉玩儿是不雅的.	It's bad manners to fidget about (with the cutlery) at the table.
不怕	那店员一点也bu4 pa4麻烦。	The shop assistant was not in the least afraid of the trouble.
一块	他从盒子里偷拿了yi1kuai4巧克力。	He sneaked a chocolate from the box.
爱国	打著ai4guo2的旗号犯下的罪行。	Crimes committed under cover of patriotism.
农夫	nong2fu1用镰刀在地里刈出一条路来。	The farmer cut a swathe in the field with his scythe.
画廊	他的画在hua4lang2展出。	His pictures were showed in the gallery.
开花	苹果树正在kai1hua1。	The apple trees are blossoming.
与此同时	yu3ci3tong2shi2，我的舌头忙着寻找我拔掉牙的那个洞。	Meanwhile, my tongue was busy searching out of the hole where the tooth had been.
中部	这个报告对在城市zhong1bu4建厂的社会成本进行了审查。	The report examine the social cost of building the factory in the middle of the town.
纪念品	她送我的ji4nian4pin3很小而且不值钱。	The keepsake she gave me is small and not very costly.
过后	一场大火guo4hou4，这座建筑剩下的只是一个空壳。	All that remained of the building after the fire was an empty shell.
眼下	yan3xia4一点现货都没有。	No stock is available at present.
国产	所用的仪器都是guo2chan3的。	The instruments used are all home-made.
阿根廷	A1gen1ting2是牛肉制品的一大出口国。	Argentina is a big exporter of beef products.
歌剧	我不爱看ge1ju4，喜欢听室内乐。	I don't like opera; chamber music is more my style.
人命	在西方极乐世界，大夫们比我们当将军的可能还要负更多ren2ming4之责吧。	Doctor will have more lives to answer for in the next world than even we generals.
击球	东道主队在6局中的ji1qiu2打得十分出色。	The home team were very good at the bat for six innings.
诗歌	他写shi1ge1颂我们伟大的社会主义祖国。	He wrote poems in praise of our great socialist motherland.
像样	这家医院没有xiang4yang4的设备.	The hospital has no decent equipment.
偷窃	环境逼得她为挨饿的儿女tou1qie4食物.	She was driven by necessity to steal food for her starving children.
比萨	有名的bi3sa4塔是斜的.	The famous tower of Pisa leans at an angle.
主力	英格兰队某些zhu3li4运动员受伤而使攻球削弱.	England's attack has been weakened by the injury of certain key players.
暴风雨	这所房子并不能防bao4feng1yu3--屋顶漏了!	This house isn't exactly stormproof the roof leaks!
永生	曾经认识，他的面容让人yong3sheng1难忘	Once known, his face is never forgotten.
人权	他就ren2quan2问题提出的抗议听来很空洞。	His protests on human rights sound hollow.
住所	衣、 食、 zhu4suo3是生活的基本必需品.	Food, clothing and shelter are all basic necessities of life.
露面	她在国外居住多年之後, 突然在伦敦重新lou4mian4了.	After living abroad for years, she suddenly surfaced again in London.
闪光	街道在雨水中shan3guang1。	The street glistened in the rain.
路易斯	Lu4yi4si1制造的局面使得该政府首脑不仅能够在竞选中弄虚作假，而且还可以肆意侵吞联邦公款，除掉可能的竞争对手。	Lewis had created a situation whereby it was possible for the man at the top to fiddle elections, embezzle union funds and do away with potential rivals.
老年人	lao3nian2ren2可以找自己的朋友而不会在情感上太依赖他们的子女。	Older people may seek their own friends rather than become too emotionally dependent on their children.
不当	因使用bu4dang4造成的损坏，生产厂家不负任何责任。	The manufacturers disclaim all responsibility for the damage caused by misuse.
轮到	lun2dao4我照顾婴儿了。	I took my turn to look after the baby.
伸展	这个花园直shen1zhan3到河岸.	The garden extends to the river bank.
鲸鱼	那条jing1yu2不住地用尾巴击水.	The whale thrashed the water with its tail.
纳税人	这个问题是否从na4shui4ren2的立场上考虑过?	Has the matter been viewed from the taxpayers' standpoint?
全城	这些设施使quan2cheng2受益.	These facilities have benefited the whole town.
宣称	他们是这样xuan1cheng1的，但他们有证据吗？	So they alleged, but have they any proof?
观赏	我宁愿guan1shang3居住在自然栖息地里的动物，而不愿看关在动物园里的动物。	I prefer to see animals in their natural habitat, rather than in zoos.
放置	棺材架，尸体架埋葬前用以fang4zhi4尸体或棺材的架子	A stand on which a corpse or a coffin containing a corpse is placed before burial.
境地	处于…jing4di4；位于	Having been placed; located.
低级	他想让我接受贿赂--我但愿我决不至於做出这种di1ji2的事.	He tried to make me accept a bribe I hope I would never stoop so low.
脚下	冻结的雪在我们的jiao3xia4嘎吱作响.	The frozen snow crunched under our feet.
自卫	防卫技巧，zi4wei4保护自己的技术或技巧；zi4wei4	The science or art of defending oneself; self-defense.
犯法	成群的歹徒fan4fa3后栖身于荒山中。	Bands of outlaws lived in the desolate mountains after breaking the laws.
浮	注意你的fu2子！	Pay attention to your float!
信徒	教友派xin4tu2们强烈反对暴力和战争。	Quakers strongly oppose violence and war.
十全十美	我还在学习, 别指望我shi2quan2-shi2mei3!	I'm still only a learner, so don't expect perfection!
河边	洪水淹没了he2bian1的田地.	Flood water covered the fields by the river.
开端	这个条约将成为持久和平的kai1duan1。	The treaty will be the threshold of lasting peace.
预示	民意测验yu4shi4保守党有获得压倒性多数票的可能.	Opinion polls forecast a Conservative landslide.
罐头	你只要拉这个拉出器，就可以很容易地把guan4tou5打开。	You may open the tin simply by pulling the puller.
忘却	今天大地在太阳光里向我营营哼鸣，象一个织着布的妇人，用一种已经被wang4que4的语言，哼着一些古代的歌曲。	The earth hums to me today in the sun, like a woman at her spinning, some ballad of the ancient time in a forgotten tongue.
餐具	他们有一些标准纯银can1ju4。	They have some sterling silver cutlery.
劫持	他们计划jie2chi2一架飞机。	They planned to hijack a plane.
摇头	他摇了yao2tou2表示反对。	He shook his head in disapproval.
碰撞	汽车peng4zhuang4时左侧的翼子板撞坏了。	The nearside wing was damaged in the collision.
半场	ban4chang3某些体育比赛被划分成两个阶段，其中之一被称为ban4chang3	One of the two playing periods into which certain games are divided.
奇异	qi2yi4的不寻常的或特别的；奇妙的	Remarkable or extraordinary; wonderful.
受益	这项活动尤其会使黑人妇女shou4yi4，对她们来说高等教育机会已被极大地限制	The program will particularly benefit Black women, for whom higher education opportunities have been severely limited.
甲板	我的舱位在E层jia3ban3.	My cabin is on E deck.
上头	但它不想某些酒那样shang4tou5。	But it do not go to the head as some drinks do.
放肆	那些部队进入敌人领土所表现出来的fang4si4令人厌恶。	The license shown by the troops when they entered enemy territory disgusted everyone.
养活	他要yang3huo5自己的七个孩子，更不必说还有妻子和父母了。	He had to support his seven children, to say nothing of his wife and parents.
人手	我希望你们中能有足够的ren2shou3准备协助这场演出.	I hope enough of you are prepared to help with the show.
警戒	遵照指示, 警察在展览会期间jing3jie4小偷。	The police have been instructed to keep an eye out for pickpockets at the fair.
偏离	导弹已pian1li2轨道.	The missile deflected from its trajectory.
磨练	世代居住在城市里使他们mo2lian4了才智。	Generations of urban living sharpened their wits.
无礼	向人吐唾沫是非常粗暴wu2li3的。	It's very rude to spit at someone.
权限	必须对警方的quan2xian4作出明确的规定。	The powers of the police need to be clearly defined.
矿	新kuang4正在开发.	New mines are opening up.
从中	我累得做不了饭了--咱们cong2zhong1国外卖餐馆买些东西来吃吧.	I'm too tired to cook let's get something from the Chinese take-away.
管制	为了防止牟取暴利而 实行了租金guan3zhi4.	Rent controls were introduced to prevent profiteering.
四月	si4yue4是种树的时候。	April is the time to plant trees.
话说	财务董事派人带hua4shuo1，她因不能出席会议而向大家道歉。	The Finance Director sends her apology and is unable to attend the meeting.
班级	我们应该全体讨论ban1ji2活动。	We must discuss the class activities in a body.
点钟	我在七dian3zhong1的新闻报道中听到了这则消息。	I heard it on the 7 o'clock news.
私事	我不和我的老板谈si1shi4。	I don't talk with my boss about my private matters.
大于	我被教会三角形两个边的和da4yu2第三个边。	I was taught that two sides of a triangle were greater than the third.
梯子	她从ti1zi5上下来.	She got down from the ladder.
奥运会	Ao4yun4hui4上，他创造了新的世界纪录。	At the Olympic Games, he created a new world record.
凳子	他把deng4zi5推到桌子下面。	He pushed the stool under the table.
体操	我不喜欢ti3cao1.	I don't like gym.
海里	盛有核废料的密封容器被丢在hai3li3。	Sealed containers of nuclear waste have been dumped in the sea.
草地	我们不能从那里穿过cao3di4, 因为河水泛滥了.	We can't cross the meadow there because the river is in flood.
进城	部队恰恰在这时准备开jin4cheng2去.	The troops are even now preparing to march into the city.
工地	一辆重型卡车在建筑gong1di4入口处的烂泥中吃力地移动着。	A heavy lorry was floundering around in the thick mud at the entrance to the.building site.
帐号	把它记在我的信用卡的zhang4hao4里。	Have it charged to my credit card.
净化	我们可以用蒸馏法使水jing4hua4。	We may purge water by distillation.
消遣	没有人会责怪你打牌xiao1qian3。	You won't be blamed for playing cards for love.
山谷	河水冲破堤岸, 淹没了shan1gu3.	The river had burst its banks and flooded the valley.
关节	屈肌一块收缩时能弯曲身体的guan1jie2或四肢的肌肉	A muscle that when contracted acts to bend a joint or limb in the body.
礼仪	女王加冕li3yi2很隆重.	The Queen was crowned with much ceremony.
出面	我得对他们说他们被开除了, 我总得替老板（chu1mian4）做这种倒霉事儿.	I had to tell them they'd lost their jobs: I always have to do the boss's dirty work (for him).
映	落日把云霞ying4得通红。	The sunset reddened the clouds.
基督徒	教皇是众多ji1du1tu2的宗教领袖.	The Pope is the spiritual leader of many Christians.
偷看	她因母亲tou1kan4她的日记而生气。	She was angry for her mother's peeping at her diary.
脸颊	那女孩玫瑰色的lian3jia2使她显得非常可爱。	The girl's rosy cheeks made her look very lovely.
白费	在无人岛上夸耀富有也是bai2fei4力气。	It is of no use boasting of being rich on a desert island.
兰花	她在晚礼服上缀著一朵lan2hua1.	She wore a single orchid on her evening dress.
抵抗力	粘滞性的对流动有较高di3kang4li4的	Having relatively high resistance to flow.
望远镜	她用wang4yuan3jing4向四周看.	She swivelled the telescope (round).
胜任	他所受的教育使他能sheng4ren4那个职位。	The education he has received fits him for the post.
基督教	圣诞节是Ji1du1jiao4的节日。	Christmas is a festival of the Christian Church.
橡胶	xiang4jiao1鞋是防水的。	Rubber boots are impervious to water.
公牛	他用绳子打个圈，套在这头小gong1niu2的角上。	He looped the rope around the steer's horns.
上空	飞机在浓雾shang4kong1飞行。	The aircraft was flying above thick fog.
中场	法国队开始时领先, 但zhong1chang3休息前威尔士队已与之拉平.	France took an early lead but Wales drew level (ie equalized the score) before half-time.
大幅	她精心策画後, 谈妥了da4fu2增加工资的事.	By careful strategy she negotiated a substantial pay rise.
体质	他饥饿与疾病交加，ti3zhi4已削弱。	Hunger and disease had weakened his constitution.
机制	我能使用文字处理机, 但不了解其运转ji1zhi4.	I can use a word processor but I don't understand its operation.
徒步	他tu2bu4走了好几天，最后安全到达一个游击队根据地。	He travelled on foot for several days until he safely reached a guerrilla base.
高于	今年的稻米产量gao1yu2往年平均产量的百分之十五。	The rice crop this year is15 percent above the average.
邮票	他用蒸汽把信封上的you2piao4揭下来。	He steamed the stamp off the envelope.
转化	太阳能电池能把阳光的能量zhuan3hua4为电能。	The solar cell can convert the energy of sunlight into electric energy.
笼	鸟在long2中拍著翅膀.	The bird fluttered its wings in the cage.
店主	dian4zhu3给我们的分量不足: 应该10公斤我们只得到7.5公斤.	The shopkeeper gave us short weight: we got 7.5 kilos instead of 10 kilos.
小学生	这些xiao3xue2sheng1是由两位老师带领的.	The children were shepherded around by two teachers.
尼斯	马林诺团体斯基，布伦Ni2si1洛·卡斯佩1884－1942波兰裔英国人类社会学家，坚持认为习俗和信仰具有特定的社会功能	Polish-born British anthropologist who maintained that customs and beliefs have specific social functions.
各个	专家们正在勘查这个岛的ge4ge4部分。	The experts are exploring every part of the island.
喷泉	她用手指在pen1quan2中玩水.	She dabbled her fingers in the fountain.
性情	他xing4qing2温和, 讨厌暴力.	Violence is abhorrent to his gentle nature.
失效	许多旧的制度都已经shi1xiao4。	Many old rules are not in force any more.
赞扬	他写了一首诗zan4yang2她的美丽。	He wrote a poem praising her loveliness.
许诺	他xu3nuo4的都是空话.	His promises were just so much meaningless talk.
以内	如果你在一个月yi3nei4偿还的话，我乐意借给你钱。	I do not mind lending you the money provided you pay it back within a month.
加利福尼亚	Jia1li4fu2ni2ya4有许多来自其他州的移民。	California has many immigrants from other states.
药片	她让我吃些yao4pian4以利睡眠.	She prescribed some pills to help me to sleep.
挪威	你懂Nuo2wei1语吗？	Do you know Norwegian?
洞穴	当欧洲人还是居住在dong4xue2中的野蛮人时，这些地方的文化早已十分繁荣昌盛。	These civilizations flourished while Europeans were still savages living in caves.
记号	那个地方在地图上以十字形ji4hao5标出.	The place is marked on the map with a cross.
烧伤	这种药膏能治疗轻微shao1shang1。	The salve will heal slight burns.
微小	一种需要经过放大才可阅读的wei1xiao3图象。	An image that is too small to be read without magnification.
修正	反对党已对议案提出几项xiu1zheng4.	The Opposition have tabled several amendments to the bill.
欢快	让咱们用响亮的音乐使聚会huan1kuai4起来。	Let's brighten up the party with some loud music.
飞越	这样，这架飞机才能升高，并在距山头四百英尺的高度fei1yue4山顶。	The plane was then able to rise and it cleared the mountains by400 feet.
强度	渐强的在音强、力量或qiang2du4上逐渐增强的	Gradually increasing in volume, force, or intensity.
发狂	使人fa1kuang2的官僚主义的混乱状况	Maddening bureaucratic mix-ups.
建成	这张图显示这幢房子jian4cheng2后正面的外观。	This drawing shows what the front elevation of the house will look like when it is built.
电动	我们的dian4dong4汽车是一项令人鼓舞的新发明.	Our electrically-powered car is an exciting new development.
遮住	水蒸气把浴室里的镜子zhe1zhu4了。	Steam has fogged the bathroom mirror.
天长地久	他说tian1chang2-di4jiu3永远爱她。	He said he'd love her to the end of time.
食谱	早餐的shi2pu3上有燕麦粥吗?	Is/Are porridge oats on the breakfast menu?
暴徒	他被bao4tu2殴打致死.	He was beaten to death by thugs.
每人	我们mei3ren2各据一间小小的办公室，与其他人分隔开。	Each of us is boxed off( from the others)in his own little office.
十字	你如果不会签名，画一个shi2zi4也可以。	If you can't sign your name, make a cross instead.
赞赏	他的行为该得到最高的zan4shang3。	His conduct is deserving of the highest praise.
爱意	宠爱的对象包含ai4 yi4的东西	An object of the affections.
饭碗	朋友告诫他，干活加把劲，否则就会丢掉fan4wan3。	He got the straight tip from his friend-work harder, or you'll lose your job.
恶毒	那个编辑在一篇社论中e4du2地攻击了反对派。	The editor got his claws into the opposition in a vicious editorial.
滥用	他们谈到人们如何在政治问题上使用及lan4yong4数字来混淆视听。	They talked about how the uses and abuses of figures to prove things in politics.
锯	所有的树都已ju4成原木.	All the trees have been sawn up into logs.
震动	那项发现在科学界引起极大的zhen4dong4。	The discovery caused a tremendous commotion in the scientific world.
工会	政府对gong1hui4表现得越来越不耐烦。	The governments showed growing impatience at the unions.
同一	他们住进tong2yi1家旅馆。	They dwelled at the same hotel.
协定	君子xie2ding4通常不能在法律上得以强制执行。	A gentleman's agreement is not usually enforceable by law.
堵住	危险的礁石du3zhu4了航道。	Dangerous rocks shut up the passage.
降价	贵方如愿意jiang4jia42％，我们就可能达成交易。	If you are preparing to cut down your price by2%, we may come to term.
极为	能和你在一起对我是件ji2wei2安慰的事。	Your company has been a great consolation to me.
就此	一场火烧毁了他开的店，他的事业jiu4ci3完蛋。	His business was done in by a fire that burned down his store.
置于	如果你把这台精密仪器zhi4yu2高温之下，仪器将会受到严重损坏。	If you subject this precision instrument to a high temperature, it will be seriously damaged.
大炮	这种da4pao4的威力很大。	The artillery did great execution.
前者	片害共栖有机体之间共生的作用关系，一个物种受另一个物种侵害或抑制，而后者不受qian2zhe3的影响	A symbiotic relationship between organisms in which one species is harmed or inhibited and the other species is unaffected.
吵闹	叫那些男孩子别在院子里chao3nao4：妈妈正在睡觉。	Tell the boys to stop messing about in the courtyard: Mother is sleeping.
丹麦	在我们学校几乎没有人懂得Dan1mai4语。	Few people know Danish in our school.
口号	反复呼喊抗议kou3hao4	Chanted defiant slogans.
岁数	很难判断他到底多大sui4shu5。	It was difficult to tell his exact age.
路障	警方在广场的入口处设置了lu4zhang4.	The police barricaded off the entrance to the square.
相当于	他告诉我说中央C音xiang1dang1yu2每秒振动256次。	He told me that middle C is equivalent to 256 vibrations per second.
诡计	假装昏迷只不过是个gui3ji4.	Pretending to faint was merely (an) artifice.
透顶	那个女人讨厌tou4ding3。	That woman is a thorough drag.
绷	辅助帆一片被beng3在船头或船尾以增进航行区域的油布	A strip of canvas laced to a fore-and-aft sail to increase sail area.
分为	习惯上说，地球上最大的一块陆地是沿着乌拉尔山脉fen1wei2两大“洲”的。	The largest landmass is usually divided into two""continents"" along the Ural Mountains.
歉意	我首先得向你们表示qian4yi4，没来参加你们的晚会。	I have in the first place to apologize for not coming to your party.
条例	这座建筑物不符合安全tiao2li4。	The building does not conform to safety regulations.
山楂	那两个女孩经常一起在那棵大shan1zha1树下玩耍。	The two girls always play together under the large hawthorn.
不解	大家对她的解释茫然bu4jie3.	Her explanations were met with blank incomprehension.
沿	圆环yan2人行道滚动.	The hoop rolled along the pavement.
放进	你把玩具玩儿完了以後fang4jin4柜子里去.	Put your toys away in the cupboard, when you've finished playing.
收买	别想shou1mai3我。	Don't try to buy me off.
填补	那音乐老师每星期来两次，为的是tian2bu3多罗西与萧邦之间的一大段空白。	The music teacher came twice each week to bridge the awful gap between Dorothy and Chopin.
极点	如果情形坏到ji2dian3，我们还有些储备金可动用。	If worst comes to the worst, we still have some money in reserve.
钱财	他宣称蔑视qian2cai2。	He claims to despise riches.
服役	如果战争爆发, 我们将立即被征召fu2yi4。	If war breaks out, we shall be called up right away.
打字	你知道我多么讨厌da3zi4和速记。	You know how I loathe typing and shorthand.
专栏	他过去曾为这家报纸写zhuan1lan2文章。	He used to write a column for this newspaper.
出海	chu1hai3一周後, 又重新回到陆地上而感到愉快.	After a week at sea, it was good to feel the earth under our feet again.
做客	我敢说，如果你受邀到他们那儿去zuo4ke4，那将是你一生中度过的最愉快的时光。	If you are invited to visit them you'll have the time of your life, I can tell you.
行者	热情的示威游xing2zhe3被新闻媒介忽视了。	The zealous demonstrators were ignored by the media.
外衣	我这件wai4yi1是用绸子做的衬里。	My coat is lined with silk.
大喊大叫	很多人，盛怒之下又退回到孩提时代，边da4han3-da4jiao4边跺脚地发脾气。	Many men, when very angry, regress to their childhood and show their bad temper by shouting and stamping their feet.
字典	一本好的学生zi4dian3应该既提供词语的含义，又举出应用这些词语的例子。	A good learner's dictionary should give both the meanings of the words and examples of the constructions in which they are used.
能手	桨手划桨者，尤指划桨neng2shou3；桨手	A man who rows, especially an expert in rowing; a rower.
利物浦	li4 wu4 pu3队因对方一队员用手触球而得到一个罚球。	Liverpool were given a penalty when one of their opponents handled the ball.
袖子	我觉得有人扯我的xiu4zi5, 便转过身来.	I felt a pull at my sleeve and turned round.
定时	国与国之间的边界未明确划ding4shi2，通常会发生纠纷。	When boundaries between countries are not clearly defined, there is usually trouble.
围攻	我们在沼泽地受到蚊子的wei2gong1。	In the swamp we were beset by mosquitoes.
心地	他外表粗鲁, xin1di4却十分善良.	Beneath his gruff exterior he's really very kind-hearted.
洗礼	他们在教堂接受了xi3li3。	They received baptism at the church.
肾脏	每个人有一对shen4zang4。	Each man has a pair of kidneys.
圣地	这是sheng4di4，我们不可践踏。	This is sanctified ground, and we may not tread upon it.
社会主义	资本主义国家不得不与she4hui4zhu3yi4国家和平共处。	The capitalist countries have to coexist with the socialist countries peacefully.
重组	是谁泄漏了部门chong2zu3的细节?	Who let out the details of the reshuffle in the department?
弹药	他们不得不以极少的dan4yao4应战.	They had to meet the attack with very little ammunition.
涌	血从伤口中yong3出.	Blood was pouring from the wound.
抽出	你能chou1chu1五分钟和我谈谈吗？	Can you spare me five minutes?
本子	日记簿用来保存个人经历记载的ben3zi5	A book for use in keeping a personal record, as of experiences.
天黑	tian1hei1了，我看不见这块石头上的碑文。	I can't read the inscription on this stone because it's getting dark.
惊恐	鸟儿jing1kong3地竖起了羽毛。	The bird ruffled up its feathers.
昂	她ang2着头，把背挺得笔直。	She held her head erect and her back straight.
高烧	发gao1shao1是这种疾病的表现症状之一	A high fever is an early manifestation of the disease.
时间表	天气的变化打乱了我们体育比赛的shi2jian1biao3。	The change of the weather has mucked up our sports timetable.
外部	房子的wai4bu4需要粉刷.	The outside of the house needs painting.
现有	我们应该更好地利用xian4you3设备。	We should make a better use of the existing equipment.
中等	别让她在外边雨zhong1deng3著.	Don't leave her waiting outside in the rain.
肢体	zhi1ti3语言一个从容的、有力的动作或手势	A deliberate, vigorous motion or gesture.
孔雀	麻雀看见kong3que4负担着它的翎尾，替它担忧。	The sparrow is sorry for the peacock at the burden of its tail.
抵押	银行对这样的大笔贷款一定要有di3ya1物。	The bank will insist on collateral for a loan of that size.
鼓起	他gu3qi3全部的勇气参加比赛。	He mustered all his courage to take part in the game.
参赛者	这个can1sai4zhe3下定决心无论如何要赢得500公尺赛跑的胜利。	The racer meant to win the500-meter race at all risks.
钉子	他老是连续不断地锤击，把ding1zi5敲进木头，而且钉头与板面平齐之后，还是一个劲儿地敲。	He would hammer a nail into the wood with a series of blows that continued to down long after the head was flush with the boards.
陆军	我谈到的lu4jun1方面, 如作适当变动, 也适用於海军.	What I have said about the army also applies, mutatis mutandis, to the navy.
老太婆	他还管他母亲叫“lao3tai4po2”呢。	He called his mother""old girl"", too.
前线	qian2xian4的位于qian2xian4的或适合qian2xian4用的	Located or used at a military front.
锦标赛	观看jin3biao1sai4的观众们丢下的废物，实非笔墨所能描述。	The rubbish left behind by the Cup Final crowd beggars description.
汉堡包	这只han4bao3bao1不但气味好闻而且味道好吃。	The hamburger not only smells good but (also) tastes delicious.
落入	他们设下圈套, 他果然luo4ru4其中.	They set a trap for him and he walked right into it.
性关系	对抗作用一个生物和另一种生物新陈代谢物之间的对抗xing4guan1xi4	The antagonistic association between an organism and the metabolic substances produced by another.
剂量	身体经不住那麽大ji4liang4的放射线。	The body cannot tolerate such large amounts of radiation.
重返	对居住在加利福尼亚的爱好导致她放弃chong2fan3纽约的机会。	Her affinity for living in California led her to reject a chance to return to New York.
手软	他的业务对手都知道不可指望他这样无情的人会shou3ruan3.	His business rivals knew they could expect no quarter from such a ruthless adversary.
惊险	他正在阅读一部引人入胜的jing1xian3小说，什么也惊动不了他。	He is at an absorbing thriller and can't be disturbed.
苏珊	Su1shan1将珍珠项链送给了孙女。她觉得，珍珠配在孙女年轻脖子上会显得更加漂亮。	Susan gave her pearls to her granddaughter, round whose young throat she felt they would be displayed to greater advantage.
膨胀	peng2zhang4凝固性一种粘性物质在压力下变成凝固的现象	The phenomenon whereby a viscous substance solidifies under pressure.
轮子	传送带连续的带或链，用以把运动，动力或物品从一个lun2zi5或轴传导或传送到另一个	A continuous band or chain for transferring motion or power or conveying materials from one wheel or shaft to another.
树叶	堆肥腐烂有机体的混合物，如shu4ye4或粪便，用来改善土壤结构并增加土壤养分	A mixture of decaying organic matter, as from leaves and manure, used to improve soil structure and provide nutrients.
好奇心	我只好解释原因来满足他的hao4qi2xin1。	I had to explain the reasons to satisfy his curiosity.
争辩	zheng1bian4在讨论或辩论中据理力争的行为或实例	The act or an instance of striving in controversy or debate.
窗子	请把chuang1zi5弄干净，我几乎看不到外面。	Please clean the window as I can hardly see out.
想必	姑不论胜负, 这场比赛xiang3bi4十分精彩.	Win or lose, it should be a very good match.
手稿	他对自己那本书的shou3gao3先进行校订，然后才把它交给出版社。	He revised the manuscript of his book before sending it to the publisher.
野餐	他们一家常在树林里ye3can1。	Their family often picnics in the woods.
马拉松	她在今年奥运会女子ma3la1song1赛跑中赢得金牌.	She won the gold medal in the women's marathon at this year's Olympic Games.
情趣	我常引用自己说过的话，那会使我的谈话增添qing2qu4。	I often quote myself; it add spice to my conversation.
捆	这两块木头已用金属丝kun3在一起了。	The two pieces of wood were wired together.
恳求	我ken3qiu2你饶了他吧.	Spare him, I beseech you.
效力	对价，承诺被允诺、提供或做成的事物，它能使一项协议成为具有法律xiao4li4的契约	Something promised, given, or done that has the effect of making an agreement a legally enforceable contract.
实体	在计算机安全学中，一种对存取受到控制的shi2ti3的特征的描述。	In computer security, a description of the characteristics of an entity to which access is controlled.
政客	许多zheng4ke4都是狡猾的诡辩家.	Many politicians are cunning sophists.
顾及	他们如果还gu4ji2人的生命就不会做出这样可怕的事来。	If they had any respect for human life they wouldn't do such terrible things.
制成	色质干的着色物质，通常是一种可与水、油或其他固定剂混合的粉末，可zhi4cheng2漆和类似的产品	Dry coloring matter, usually an insoluble powder to be mixed with water, oil, or another base to produce paint and similar products.
北美	温和的气候给Bei3 Mei3带来大丰收。	The benign weather brought North America a bumper crop.
破灭	我的成功前景[希望]已po4mie4.	My prospects/hopes of success have vanished.
高大	他是一个gao1da4的男孩。	He is a tall boy.
照料	他忙於zhao4liao4三个小孩儿.	He's fully occupied in looking after/with three small children.
缓缓	火车huan3huan3地进站。	The train slowly came to the station.
泥土	植物从ni2tu3中吸收矿物质和其他养料.	Plants draw minerals and other nutrients from the soil.
从头到尾	我把这本书cong2tou2-dao4wei3看完了。	I've read the book from beginning to end.
日后	他问道：""你想ri4hou4到英国去住吗？""我说：""不会的，我已经断了这个念头了。""	Do you think you'll want to go back and live in England? "" he asked. ""I don't think so, "" I said. ""I think I've got that much out of my system.""
拦截	有效的防卫是不待对方导弹击中我们而先行将其lan2jie2.	Effective defence is a matter of intercepting their missiles before they can reach us.
得逞	由於炸弹过早爆炸, （恐怖分子的）阴谋未能de2cheng3.	The plot backfired (on the terrorist) when the bomb exploded too soon.
抄袭	她因考试chao1xi2作弊而受到处罚.	She was punished for copying during the examination.
干酪	老鼠把一部分gan1lao4啃吃了。	The mice have nibbled away part of the cheese.
极大	她在攀登过程中表现出ji2da4的耐力。	She exhibited great powers of endurance during the climb.
皇室	huang2shi4的领地并非属于国王私人所有，而是属于国家的。	Land belonging to the crown does not belong to the king personally but to the state.
一级	每个阶级或等级上的人有为比它高yi1ji2的阶级或高一层次的人尽责任的社会。	Society where each class or level have a duty to serve the class above it.
灭绝	（湖泊等）优氧化的水中富有矿物有机物，有利于植物，特别是藻类的增殖，但藻类往往使分解的氧含量过低，从而使别的有机物mie4jue2。用于指湖泊或池塘	Having waters rich in mineral and organic nutrients that promote a proliferation of plant life, especially algae, which reduces the dissolved oxygen content and often causes the extinction of other organisms. Used of a lake or pond.
波动	价格在5英镑与6英镑之间bo1dong4.	The price fluctuates between 5 and 6.
整洁	还是老生常谈的事: 谁都想让房子zheng3jie2, 可谁也不愿意亲自整理.	It's the same old story: everybody wants the house tidy, but nobody wants to tidy it himself.
搜集	他sou1ji2的邮票是我的三倍还不止。	He has collected more than three times as many stamps as I (have).
掏出	他tao1chu1一叠用旧了的纸币。	He pulled out a pile of used bank note.
驾驶员	jia4shi3yuan2把失灵的飞机降落在田地里。	The pilot brought his crippled plane down in a field.
尊贵	高傲的，贵族的以符合老爷或作为老爷的zun1gui4的、高贵的方式的或具之特点的	In a dignified, noble fashion befitting or characteristic of a lord.
用处	很奇怪他们改变了计划，但我觉得没有什么yong4chu5。	Their change of plan is strange but I don't think it's significant.
国旗	他们升起了guo2qi2。	They ran up their national flag.
栗子	你自己拿一只烤li4zi5吧。	Grab yourself a roast chestnut.
图书	她在乡村tu2shu1展销会上买到一本珍贵的首版书。	She picked up a valuable first edition at a village book sale.
处决	他们把国王chu3jue2了。	They executed the king.
乳酪	尝一点儿这种ru3lao4吧!	Just have a taste of this cheese!
建筑师	这个男孩下定决心成为一个优秀的jian4zhu4shi1。	The boy made up his mind to become an excellent architect.
巡回	她用一个问答的方式引起她的演讲。这支乐队通过全国xun2hui2演出来创下了自己的记录	She followed her lecture with a question-and-answer period. The band followed its hit record with a national tour.
上个月	他的书shang4ge5yue4出版了。	His book came out last month.
内脏	nei4zang4的，位于nei4zang4的与nei4zang4有关的、位于nei4zang4的或影响nei4zang4的	Relating to, situated in, or affecting the viscera.
待人	我可以给你举出她故意粗暴dai4ren2的几个例子.	I can quote you several instances of her being deliberately rude.
秋季	您被邀请参观我们的qiu1ji4时装展览。	You are invited to view our autumn collection.
越过	她把球挑高yue4guo4对方的头向後场落去.	She lobbed the ball over her opponent's head to the back of the court.
雨伞	yu3san3在冬季最好卖.	Umbrellas sell best in winter.
烟草	除酒之外, yan1cao3在多数国家都要徵税.	Tobacco is taxed in most countries, along with alcohol.
简称	不列颠是大不列颠及北爱尔兰联合王国的jian3cheng1。	Britain is a brief name of The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
俄语	六十岁时, 他开始学E2yu3。	At the age of sixty he took up the study of Russian.
树枝	他正用一把大剪刀剪shu4zhi1。	He is cutting the branches with a pair of shears.
房顶	那架喷气式飞机低飞掠过fang2ding3, 隆隆声把大家吓了一跳.	The jet zoomed low over the houses, frightening everyone.
紧密	结细绳、绸带或粗绳等材料交织而形成的jin3mi4联接	A compact intersection of interlaced material, such as cord, ribbon, or rope.
宣告	终于xuan1gao4和平。	Peace was declared at last.
冲洗	你可以用热水把菜盘上凝结的油污chong1xi3掉。	You may use hot water to rinse the congealed fat off the dinner plates.
木乃伊	那个国家将要展示埃及mu4nai3yi5。	There will be an Egyptian mummy show in that country.
应急	他由于忘了带钥匙，便以简单的ying4ji2办法从窗户爬进屋里。	As he had forgot his keys, he got into the house by the simple expedient of climbing through the window.
通行	街道十分拥挤, 汽车无法tong1xing2.	The street was so crowded that cars were unable to pass.
摇滚乐	她喜欢yao2gun3yue4。	She is crazy about rock and roll.
替换	长音节的拆分或ti4huan4一个韵律元素替代另一个，尤指在数量韵文中用两个短音节替代一个长音节	The substitution of one metrical unit for another, especially the substitution of two short syllables for one long syllable in quantitative verse.
来访	她的lai2fang3给孩子们的生活带来了欢乐。	Her visit brought a ray of sunshine into the children's lives.
离奇	有一个li2qi2的故事一直流传着。	A strange story has been going round.
墨镜	她乔装打扮戴著金色假发和mo4jing4.	She disguised herself with a blonde wig and dark glasses.
变为	表否定的将一个词的意义由肯定bian4wei2否定的	Altering the meaning of a term from positive to negative.
存放	地下室里有地方cun2fang4不用的家具之类的东西.	There's room in the cellar to store unused furniture and what have you.
积雪	去年冬天，地上ji1xue3很厚。	Last winter the snow lay thick on the ground.
言行	由于他是牧师，yan2xing2须顾虑到自己的身份。	As he is a parson, he has to respect the cloth.
骑兵	qi2bing1猛烈向前线冲击。	The cavalry charged to the front.
开幕	交易会将于5月19日kai1mu4。	The fair was to open on May19.
租金	zu1jin1贵是贵, （但）房子倒很好.	The rent is high, (but) otherwise the house is fine.
进取	如果我们要克服困难，我们就要有jin4qu3精神。	We need a spirit of enterprise if we are to overcome our difficulties.
捐献	零星共同凑集的一笔钱一笔钱，尤其指很多人为了设计的目的juan1xian4的钱	A pool of money, especially one to which a number of people have contributed for a designated purpose.
排球	pai2qiu2是我很喜欢的运动。	Volleyball is a sport of which I am very fond.
牢牢	那船lao2lao2地搁浅在沙洲上.	The ship stuck fast on the bar.
手提包	我的shou3ti2bao1的扣坏了.	The catch on my handbag is broken.
抑或	至于动力方式是采用“蒸气式”yi4huo4“柴油式”，我想贵公司将交由我方全权处理吧？	And the propulsion method whether steam or diesel, you'll leave to us, I suppose?
遗体	他的yi2ti3埋葬在教堂的墓地里.	His mortal remains are buried in the churchyard.
凡人	对於我们fan2ren2来说，生活依旧。	Life goes on for those of us who remain here below.
撞车	这是一次严重的zhuang4che1事故，但幸好无人死亡。	It was a bad crash, but fortunately there were no fatalities.
高温	热解化用，gao1wen1分解由于热量而导致的化合物的分解或转化	Decomposition or transformation of a compound caused by heat.
妇人	她是个很好的fu4ren2，冷酷不是她的本性。	She's a very good woman; unkindness is foreign to her nature.
电报	别忘了一到就给我们打个dian4bao4.	Don't forget to cable us as soon as you arrive.
通报	即使要tong1bao4紧急请求，不经允许闯到国王面前也是危险的。	It is dangerous to intrude into the King's presence without permission, even to make an urgent request.
计程车	她很热心, 为我打电话叫了ji4cheng2che1.	She was so kind as to phone for a taxi for me.
天主教	她一出生就受到tian1zhu3jiao4的熏陶.	She was born and bred a Catholic.
甜点	瓜形tian2dian3一种用两层或多层各种风味的冰淇淋做成的球形或瓜形的tian2dian3	A dessert consisting of two or more layers of variously flavored ice cream frozen in a round or melon-shaped mold.
外貌	她和她姐姐wai4mao4相似，但性格不同。	She resembles her sister in appearance but not in character.
回信	简给他写了封长信，然而他一直没有hui2xin4。	Jane wrote him a long letter, but he never wrote back.
金鱼	他在jin1yu2缸周围贴上了彩色风景明信片，好让jin1yu2们以为在游历四方。	He pasted picture postcard around goldfish bowl to make the goldfish think they were going place.
忙于	这位女秘书一心mang2yu2勾引新来的经理，简直未觉察到办公室里人人都在暗中笑她。	The secretary was so busy getting her hooks into the new manager, that she hardly noticed that everyone in the office was laughing at her.
油画	那是一幅描绘春天景色的you2hua4。	That is an oil painting of a landscape in spring.
夺得	duo2de2金牌是她又一值得骄傲的成就.	Winning the gold medal was yet another feather in her cap.
查明	我们迟早会cha2ming2事实真相。	We shall find out the truth early or late.
嗜好	甜食是我唯一的shi4hao4。	Sweets are my only indulgence.
流出	水源，泉水从地下liu2chu1的地方；泉或喷泉	A place where water issues from the earth; a spring or fountain.
摆放	在离开办公室之前, 应把所有物品bai3fang4好。	Before you leave the office, everything should be put in place.
烧毁	在火灾中，好些房子给shao1hui3了。	A number of houses were burnt down in the fire.
潜艇	这艘船是被一艘核qian2ting3击沉的。	The ship was sunk by an atomic submarine.
发言人	他是国务院的fa1yan2ren2。	He is the spokesman of the council.
海浪	hai3lang4轻轻地拍打着海岸。	The waves gently lap against the shore.
处罚	他受到的chu3fa2是罪有应得。	He richly deserved the punishment he received.
欺诈	他用光明正大的方法得不到的东西, 就采取卑鄙的qi1zha4手段.	When he couldn't get what he wanted openly and honestly, he resorted to low cunning.
小巷	为避开跟踪的人，我迅速跑进一条xiao3xiang4。	In order to avoid the man following me, I shot into a lane.
王妃	她泰然自若地履行wang2fei1的职责.	She performs the duties of a princess with great aplomb.
光泽	时装杂志看起来很有guang1ze2。	Fashion magazines are glossy.
何以	医生无法解释高烧he2yi3持久不退。	The doctor couldn't explain the persistence of the fever.
阶级	假使剥去了人们的衣服的话，到底彼此的jie1ji2能够维持到什么程度，倒是一则有趣的问题。	It is an interesting question how far men will retain their relative rank if they were divest of their clothes.
显现	花朵在阳光下清晰地xian3xian4出轮廓。	The flower was clearly outlined in the light of the lamp.
敬意	他向我请教那件事以表示对我的jing4yi4。	He paid me the compliment of consulting me about the affair.
医药	难民苦於缺少食物和yi1yao4用品.	The refugees are suffering for want of food and medical supplies.
树木	黑檀树是一种黑色而坚硬的shu4mu4。	Ebony is a hard black wood.
总经理	zong3jing1li3由董事会任命。	The president is appointed by the board of directors.
瘟疫	人们心中的恐惧像wen1yi4一样蔓延开来。	Fear spread through the crowd like a contagion.
相连	由控制装置（群集控制器）和与它xiang1lian2的终端组成的一种站。	A station that consists of a control unit(cluster controller) and the terminals attached to it.
熊熊	消防队到达时, 整座建筑物正在xiong2xiong2燃烧著.	When the firemen arrived the whole building was blazing.
另一方面	他一方面受到批评，ling4yi1fang1mian4却受到鼓励。	He has been criticized on one hand and encouraged on the other.
聋	他long2成这个样子，究竟是怎样从事作曲的呢？	However does he manage to write music when he is so deaf?
琐事	别为这些suo3shi4生气。	Don't be angry over such trivial matters.
路面	吉普车很适合在高低不平的lu4mian4上行驶.	A jeep is ideal for driving over rough terrain.
往来	wang3lai2交往个人或群体间的交往或交际	Dealings or communications between persons or groups.
还给	根据我们的记录，你借的书现在应该huan2gei3图书馆了。	According to our records, the books you have borrowed should now be returned to the library.
连续剧	英国广播公司在播放那部电视lian2xu4ju4以後，即将出版一部有关的书。	As a follow-up to the television series the BBC is publishing a book.
修饰	引出推论的表达推论的或置于推论前面的，用来xiu1shi4词语	Expressing or preceding an inference. Used of a word.
坏处	她是那些老是把困难往最huai4chu5想的女人之一。	She is one of those women who always make the worst of their troubles.
步枪	一枝bu4qiang1瞄准著人质的头.	The hostage had a rifle levelled at his head.
填写	把你的名字tian2xie3在每页上端的括号内。	Put your name in brackets at the top of each page.
紧身	现在的妇女不再穿jin3shen1衣了。	Women don't wear corset nowadays.
两边	他把派克大衣兜帽liang3bian1都绑得紧紧的来挡住雪。	He held both sides of the parka hood closed against the snow.
斑点	他脸上有许多难看的红色大ban1dian3.	His face was covered in ugly red blotches.
臭味	你闻到发霉烟草的chou4wei4了吗？	Do you smell the reek of stale tobacco?
乞求	不值得我去qi3qiu2	It was beneath me to beg.
动不动	不要dong4bu5dong4就挑毛病.	Don't be so ready to find fault.
热衷	他早年所受的教养使他re4zhong1於冒险活动.	His early training predisposed him to a life of adventure.
动用	政府需dong4yong4更多经费重建旧城区.	More government money needs to go into rebuilding the inner cities.
贵宾	这些座位是留给gui4bin1的.	These seats are reserved for special guests.
平稳	大浪过後, 船又ping2wen3了.	The ship righted itself after the big wave had passed.
山区	驶经shan1qu1的公共汽车遭到匪徒袭击.	Buses driving through the mountains have been attacked by bandits.
高原	抛杆赛苏格兰gao1yuan2上的一种竞赛，将一根又长又重的木杆一端接一端地抛掷，从而表现出力量	A long, heavy wooden pole tossed end over end as a demonstration of strength in Scottish highland games.
外观	这座建筑的wai4guan1像监狱.	The building was like a prison in appearance.
享有	该诗仍然xiang3you3版权, 因此你必须支付引用费.	The poem is still under copyright, so you have to pay to quote it.
往日	wang3ri4激情将熄的余烬仍可从他的文章中看出来。	The dying embers of a former passion can still be seen in his article.
疤痕	这伤口能留下ba1hen2吗?	Will the cut leave a scar?
抵御	他竖起大衣领di3yu4寒风.	He turned up his coat collar against the chill wind.
追赶	我因为zhui1gan3公共汽车，弄得上气不接下气。	I was out of breath after running for the bus.
小号	他用xiao3hao4吹奏了一首曲子。	He played a tune on his trumpet.
门前	队伍就在我家men2 qian2经过.	The procession passed right by my front door.
比利时	Bi3li4shi2被称作欧洲战场。	Belgium has been called the cockpit of Europe.
伴奏	他演唱由钢琴ban4zou4.	He sang to a piano accompaniment.
忠于	士兵们zhong1yu2他们的国家。	The soldiers are loyal to their country.
珊瑚	巴布亚湾shan1hu2海的一个位于新几内亚东南岸的大海湾	A large inlet of the Coral Sea on the southeast coast of New Guinea.
音乐家	这些yin1yue4jia1作了一场绝对完美的演出。	These musicians gave an absolutely faultless performance.
十九	由于南部某些州于shi2jiu3世纪六十年代脱离美国而导致了南北战争。	The secession of some southern states from the USA in the 1860s led to the civil war.
化合物	五氧化物由五个氧原子和其它元素或基组成的hua4he2wu4	A compound having five atoms of oxygen combined with another element or radical.
防卫	一旦迈克采取了fang2wei4态度，就很难使他相信没有什么可怕的。	Once Mike's taken up a defensive attitude, it's difficult to persuade him that's nothing to be afraid of.
微波	在wei1bo1系统中，来自各处的分散的输入必须被汇集在一起，以形成一个综合的输入，然后由无线电发送和接收。	In microwave system the separate input from various sources must be brought together to give a composite input which is then transmitted and received by radio.
电车	汽车和dian4che1塞满了整条街。	Cars and trolleys filled the streets.
暴风	bao4feng1给成千上万的人带来灾难。	The cyclone brought misery to thousands of people.
旱	久han4使很多人陷入饥饿。	The long drought famished many people.
高血压	抗gao1xue4ya1的减轻或控制gao1xue4ya1的	Reducing or controlling high blood pressure.
时钟	我决不能饶恕查理曼大帝之将shi2zhong1引进西方文明这一件事情。	I can never forgive Charlemagne for introducing clocks into Western civilization.
限度	他赛前量体重比规定xian4du4少几磅。	He weighed in at several pounds below the limit.
悬赏	她应该在附近贴几张寻找狗狗的xuan2shang3公告。	She should post rewards around the neighborhood for finding it.
芭蕾舞	这个ba1lei3wu3女演员的每一个动作都很优美。	All the moves of the ballerina were graceful.
抬起	tai2qi3这只沉重的箱子要花费相当大的力气。	It's quite an effort to lift this heavy box.
超速	她因chao1su4开车而被罚款。	She was fined for driving above the regulation speed.
飞快	fei1kuai4地；迅速地	At a rapid pace; swiftly.
应对	凡是飞机驾驶员均ying4dui4乘客的安全负责.	All pilots are responsible for their passengers' safety.
酒馆	我完全赞成jiu3guan3整日营业.	I'm all for pubs being open all day.
盲人	我帮助那个mang2ren2过去了.	I helped the blind man across.
派出	总统pai4chu1他的高级助手去组织安排对立派别之间的和平谈判。	The president has sent his top aide to master-mind peace negotiations between the opposing factions.
棍	他一再挥gun4向我打来.	He struck at me repeatedly with a stick.
西边	要是太阳从xi1bian5出来，他就会通过考试－－他不可能通过考试。	If the sun were to rise in the west, he would pass the exam.
电流	这个电钮接通dian4liu2。	This button switches the current on.
积蓄	遇有急用时, 我们只好动用ji1xu4.	If it comes to the push, we shall have to use our savings.
异议	他决不允许有yi4yi4。	He will permit no contradiction.
一带	一种尚未搞清的病虫害突然侵袭了这yi1dai4的庄稼。	An unknown disease suddenly attacked the crops in this area.
哀悼	人们戴着黑纱ai1dao4我们的领导。	People wore crapes to mourn our leader.
满脸	我问起他那新女友, 他就man3lian3通红.	He went as red as a beetroot when I asked about his new girl-friend.
分娩	现在fen1mian3时常用硬膜外注射.	Epidurals are now often used during childbirth.
好象	对不起，对方的电话hao3xiang4坏了。	I'm sorry, caller, their telephone seems to be broken.
人均	去岁ren2jun1收入剧增.	Per capita incomes rose sharply last year.
低下	他因羞愧而di1xia4了头。	He because of bashful but low head.
问道	｀那麽你是怎麽知道那件事的呢?＇他插嘴wen4dao4.	`But how do you know that?' he interposed.
得体	他的拒绝是那样委婉de2ti3，所以我们并未感到不快。	His refusal was worded in such a graceful way that we could not be offended.
九月	炎热的天气持续到jiu3yue4。	The hot weather lasted until September.
取胜	他们以为能在选举中轻易qu3sheng4, 但事情往往会功败垂成.	They think they'll win the election easily, but there's many a slip 'twixt cup and lip.
艾滋病	我今天要讲的是我们社会面临的一大危害，就是ai4zi1bing4。	I want to talk today about a major threat facing our society, namely AIDS.
乐于	如果能开发出新产品，我们将le4yu2引进先进技术。	If new product can be developed, we'll be very glad to import advanced technology.
水流	shui3liu2经水闸时十分湍急.	Water went rushing through the lock gates.
爱因斯坦	Ai4yin1si1tan3是个伟大的科学天才。	Einstein was a great scientific genius.
近视	我要是不戴眼镜十分jin4shi4。	I'm very near-sighted without my glasses on.
教书	要不然他还会在jiao1shu1，因为他的心仍然在课堂上和他的学生们在一起。	Otherwise he would still be teaching, because his heart and soul were still in the classroom with his students.
问答	教义wen4da2法常用于宗教教学。	The catechism is used for religious instruction.
尾声	当男主角策马向夕阳驰去时，wei3sheng1音乐逐渐消失。	The closing music fades out when the hero rides off into the sunset.
古人	gu3ren2认为勇敢是美德的主要成分。	The ancients counted courage as the main part of virtue.
兵力	分散bing1li4是导致失败的原因。	Dispersion of forces led up to the defeat.
飞奔	摔下来的骑手遭fei1ben1马群践踏.	Fallen riders were trampled underfoot by the charging horses.
为生	鸬鹚是一种长脖子黑颜色的大鸟，生活在海滨而且以吃鱼wei2sheng1。	The cormorant is a large, long-necked, dark-colored bird which lives near sea coasts and eats fish.
牢记	我试着把那个日期lao2ji4在心。	I tried to fix the date in my mind.
接纳	资方有权拒绝jie1na4.	The management reserves the right to refuse admission.
必需品	＂房间里只布置了最简单的bi4xu1pin3，一张床、一把椅子和一张桌子。＂	The room was furnished with the simplest essentials, a bed, a chair, and a table.""
洁白	她jie2bai2的脸和她黑色的衣服形成强烈的对比。	Her white face and her dark dress contrast sharply.
溜冰	这些女孩在liu1bing1，而这些男孩在观看。	The girls are skating and the boys (are) watching.
辛辛苦苦	玛丽xin1xin1ku3ku3把约翰的房间打扫干净，不料她所得到的却是一番侮辱。	Mary worked hard to clean up John's room, but all she got for her trouble was a kick in the teeth.
豌豆	这种wan1dou4长着长豆荚。	This kind of pea has a long pod.
粗暴	他们对她的外表横加cu1bao4的评论。	They made rude remarks about her appearance.
留心	我跟你说话的时候, 你要liu2xin1听!	Pay attention when I'm talking to you!
为人	她wei2ren2厚道、慷慨大方，倒也弥补了她偶尔发点儿脾气。	Her kindness and generosity cancel out her occasional flashes of temper.
升高	这样，这架飞机才能sheng1gao1，并在距山头四百英尺的高度飞越山顶。	The plane was then able to rise and it cleared the mountains by400 feet.
心软	看到这个小女孩哭起来，他的xin1ruan3了。	His heart melted when he saw the little girl crying.
弄到	我nong4dao4两张优胜杯决赛的票.	I've got two tickets for the Cup Final.
鲁莽	他们lu3mang3仓促地采取了行动。	They acted with precipitate haste.
判断力	政治家不应该参与那些可能会影响其政治pan4duan4li4的商业事务。	Politicians should not engage in business affairs that might affect their political judgement.
外汇	你们接受wai4hui4券兑换券吗？	Do you accept foreign exchange certificate?
一片	所有的灯都熄了, 周围yi1 pian4黑暗.	All the lights went out and we were left in the dark.
选民	由于天气恶劣，许多xuan3min2今天没有投票。	Many electors didn't vote today because of the bad weather.
指头	她喝茶时弯起小zhi3tou5。	She crooked her little finger as she drank her tea.
喝醉	使醉的he1zui4了的，被麻醉品例如可卡因或大麻麻醉了的	Intoxicated by or as if by alcohol or a drug, such as cocaine or marijuana.
跑道	飞机在pao3dao4上滑行.	The plane taxied/was taxiing along the runway.
歌星	那位流行歌曲ge1xing1周围蜂拥著许多歌迷。	The pop star was followed by a train of admirers.
氧	水含有氢和yang3。	Water contains hydrogen and oxygen.
用完	我们在高速公路上行驶时汽油yong4wan2了.	We ran out of juice on the motorway.
工艺	陶瓷学制作陶瓷物品的gong1yi4或技术，尤指用耐火粘土制	The art or technique of making objects of ceramic, especially from fired clay.
在座	我现在讲的话，我相信也是zai4zuo4许多同志的想法。	In what I am saying now I believe I speak also for many others present at this meeting.
贵重	您可以将您的gui4zhong4物品放在旅馆的保险柜里。	You may deposit your valuables in the hotel safe.
再也	我突然意识到可能zai4 ye3见不着她了。	I was struck by the sudden realization that I would probably never see her again.
羽绒	我女儿请求我给她买一个yu3rong2枕头。	My daughter asked me to buy her a pillow stuffed with feathers.
到期	租金已dao4qi1, 你的支票来到真是喜从天降!	The rent was due, so your cheque came as an absolute godsend!
笔迹	我怎麽也看不明白你的bi3ji4.	I can never read your writing.
琼	qiong2自从获得了第一游泳证书后非常骄傲，瞧不起人。	June is as proud as a peacock after winning her first swimming certificate.
争斗	党羽的政治阴谋经常是良好政府的妨碍。公务上的政治zheng1dou4经常是带削弱性质和招致反效果的	Partisan politics is often an obstruction to good government. Office politics are often debilitating and counterproductive.
底片	＂用那张di3pian4，你要我们印几张像片？＂	How many copies do you ask us to print off from the negative?
奋力	工程师fen4li4进行修桥工作.	The engineers set to on repair work to the bridge.
音符	八分yin1fu2、四分yin1fu2和二分yin1fu2在乐谱上是不同长度的三个yin1fu2。	Quavers, crotchets and minims are three of the different lengths of note in written music.
布满	那老人的脸上bu4man3皱纹和褶子.	The old man's face was covered in lines and wrinkles.
捉弄	这些男孩zhuo1nong4那位老人真是残忍。	It is very cruel of these boys to make a fool of that old man.
掘	我们正在jue2地探矿.	We are digging for mineral deposits.
早已	我一点也没有吃惊，因为我zao3yi3料到会有那样的事。	I was not in the least surprised, for I had expected as much.
捣蛋	母亲把她那顽皮dao3dan4的儿子按在膝盖上揍他。	The mother set her naughty son over her knee and beat him.
职工	经理企图以解雇来威胁，迫使zhi2gong1更卖力气。	The manager tried to bully his men into working harder by threatening them with dismissal.
缩写	在书写时, Doctor头衔的suo1xie3是Dr.	In writing, the title `Doctor' is abbreviated to `Dr'.
色调	这个房间是用红色和棕色装饰的暖se4diao4。	The room was furnished in warm reds and browns.
中性	无色的无色的，因零饱和度而没有颜色，如zhong1xing4灰色，白色，或黑色	Designating color perceived to have zero saturation and therefore no hue, such as neutral grays, white, or black.
残骸	那架飞机的can2hai2散布范围很大.	Wreckage of the aircraft was scattered over a wide area.
出世	他们大多数人是解放战争期间chu1shi4的。	Most of them came into the world during the War of Liberation.
关押	在一出极为成功的演出中，一位著名演员有一次被选派扮演一名贵族。这位贵族被guan1ya1在巴士底狱已20年了。	A famous actor in a highly successful play was once cast in the role of an aristocrat who had been imprisoned in the Bastille for twenty years.
胶片	音轨一独立的轨道，如沿着一段jiao1pian4或磁带的，可将声音或其它信息记录在上面	A distinct path, as along a length of film or magnetic tape, on which sound or other information is recorded.
订购	他们向我们ding4gou4了三架新飞机.	They have placed an order with us for three new aircraft.
灯火	那座宫殿deng1huo3辉煌.	The palace was ablaze with lights.
灯塔	多佛尔与法国加莱市隔岸相对的英格兰东南部自治市，临多佛尔海峡。罗马deng1ta3遗址，自中世纪以来就是战略要地，该市白垩崖多岩洞和涵洞原为走私者所用。人口33，700	A municipal borough of southeast England on the Strait of Dover opposite Calais, France. Site of a Roman lighthouse, it has been a strategic port since medieval times. The chalk cliffs rising above the city have caves and tunnels originally used by smugglers. Population, 33,700.
密集	mi4ji2的迫击炮火力从这些阵地射向由山谷那边上来的援军。	From these positions mortar fire was rained down upon reinforcements moving up through the valley.
马铃薯	今年ma3ling2shu3丰收。	The tomatoes have cropped well this year.
想出	他xiang3chu1了一个极好的主意。	He worked out an excellent idea.
特写	这张照片是人眼的te4xie3。	This picture is a closeness of the human eye.
新奇	我们在晚会上要装扮得像电影中的角色，这是一个多么xin1qi2的主意啊！	We are supposed to dress up as movie characters for the party, what a novel idea!
高空	要射中飞行中的小鸟，尤其是gao1kong1飞行的小鸟，非常困难。	It is difficult to shoot a flying bird, especially a small bird flying high up in the sky.
四分之一	si4 fen1zhi1 yi1是一个真分数。	One forth is a proper fraction.
藤	他用teng2杖抽断了荨麻的顶部.	He swished off the tops of the nettles with his cane.
变换	你最好bian4huan4一下饮食，不要总吃同样的东西。	It's better to vary your diet rather than eat the same things all the time.
戏剧性	国际政治的xi4ju4xing4使她深感兴趣。	The drama of international politics interested her.
终端	在分时系统中，zhong1duan1和其它设备进行一次数据交换，从而完成一个特定的动作或产生一个特定的结果。例如，输入客户的存款金额并修改客户的余额。	In systems with time sharing, an exchange between a terminal and another device that accomplishes a particular action or result; for example, the entry of a customer's deposit and the updating of the customer's balance.
酒杯	他向高脚jiu3bei1里倒了一些葡萄酒。	He poured some wine into the goblet.
暗中	他在黑an4zhong1只能勉强辨认出道路。	He was just able to discern the road from the dark.
平息	一会儿工夫骚动ping2xi1了下来。	Presently the tumult died down.
中餐	好主意。我们或者吃汉堡包或者吃zhong1can1。你更喜欢哪一样？	Great idea. Let's have either hamburgers or Chinese food. What's your preference?
先后	临近终点时，那几匹马齐头并进，简直分不出xian1-hou4。	As the horses raced towards the finishing post, there was nothing in it.
敬佩	我得说我对他真是jing4pei4--我从未想到他能参加甲队.	I must say I take my hat off to him I neverthought he would get into the first team.
折叠	我们发现可zhe2die2的桌子使用非常方便。	We find our folding table a great convenience.
面向	卧室的窗户mian4xiang4街道.	The bedroom windows give on to the street.
住宿	这旅馆可供达500位来宾zhu4su4.	This hotel can accommodate up to 500 guests.
差错	哪怕是出了再小的cha1cuo4，老板也会对他横加斥责。	His boss will jump on every little mistake he makes, no matter how trivial.
一举一动	那男子yi1ju3-yi1dong4像个大男孩。	That man behaves like an overgrown child.
延缓	手术不能yan2huan3。	The operation cannot wait.
暗号	她对我发出靠近她的an4hao4。	She made a sign for me to approach her.
刺客	ci4ke4因某种政治原因杀了那个知名人士。	The assassin killed the famous person for political reasons.
上山	那些奴隶艰难地把沉重的石块拖shang4shan1。	The slaves toiled up the hill pulling the heavy blocks.
波斯	瓦莱里安罗马皇帝（253－260年），在他的统治时期充满了军事或财政困难，他于260年被Bo1si1武装力量击败并在被俘期间死去	Emperor of Rome(253-260) whose reign was marked by military and financial troubles. He was defeated by Persian forces(260) and died in captivity.
钻进	那个贼偷偷zuan1jin4黑胡同里.	The thief slunk down the dark alley.
瑕疵	他在品德[名誉]上毫无xia2ci1.	His character/reputation is without (a) blemish.
半岛	阿克巴湾红海的一个海湾，在西奈ban4dao3及沙特阿拉伯西北部之间。它长期以来在中东具有重要的战略性	An arm of the Red Sea between the Sinai Peninsula and northwest Saudi Arabia. It has long been of strategic importance in the Middle East.
肆意	si4yi4地作出粗暴的行为；纵情享受最新时尚	Indulged in outrageous behavior; indulged in all the latest fads.
当众	在许多国家, dang1zhong4吐痰属不雅行为.	In many countries it is considered rude to spit in public.
课本	这是这一科的权威性ke4ben3.	This is the standard textbook on the subject.
一对	快点吧, 你们这yi1 dui4恩爱情侣!	Come along, you two love-birds!
旁观者	把pang2guan1zhe3牵扯进他与警察的争执	Involved the bystanders in his dispute with the police.
生成	酸与碱反应sheng1cheng2盐。	Acids react with bases to form salts.
失调	当前的贸易赤字表明我们的进出口贸易严重shi1tiao2.	The current trade deficit indicates a serious imbalance between our import and export trade.
人马	厨师们在大队ren2ma3之前到了野地营地。	The cooks arrive on camp in advance of the main party.
更改	这位部长在她的讲话中表示不同意对现行法律作任何geng1gai3。	In her speech, the Minister came out against any change to the existing law.
选美	赞成举办xuan3mei3的是年轻人。	It is young people who favor holding beauty pageants.
教皇	jiao4huang2向人群祝福.	The Pope blessed the crowd.
水下	这机器是为shui3xia4使用而特别改装的。	This machine has been specially adapted for underwater use.
叉	他用cha1子cha1肉.	He stabbed the meat with his fork/stabbed his fork into the meat.
太阳能	科学家正在设想一种新的利用tai4yang2neng2的方法。	The scientist is thinking of a new way of tapping the solar energy.
主食	面包、土豆及其他zhu3shi2的价格继续上涨。	Bread, potato and other staple continue to rise in price.
侵蚀	海水渐渐地qin1shi2了陆地。	The sea is gradually encroaching on the land.
攀	那小队pan1登山的北坡.	The team climbed the north face of the mountain.
煤	mei2和铁都是矿物.	Coal and iron are minerals.
拘捕	这些犹太人生活在会遭到ju1bu3的恐惧之中。	The Jews lived in dread of being caught.
激起	他的话ji1qi3了我的仇恨。	His words stirred up my hatred.
褐色	这只小动物有一双淡he4se4的眼睛。	This small animal has a pair of hazel eyes.
加以	该函已退给（我方）要求对某问题jia1yi3解释.	The letter was referred back (to us) with a query.
壁炉	她只有坐在bi4lu2前才感觉到暖和。	She felt warm only when she sat before the fireplace.
无理	律师对那个要求提出异议，并力图证明它是一种wu2li3的要求。	The lawyer contested the claim, and tried to prove that it was false.
拔掉	我不敢把比尔放到花园去－－他会把花全都ba2diao4的。	I daren't let Bill loose on the garden he'd pull up all the flowers.
晚报	在wan3bao4的一则广告里，他促请大家注意他新进的货物。	In an advertisement in the evening paper, he calls public attention to his new stock of goods.
静止	一种正在执行中的程序，是一种活着的实体，能引起事件的发生；而程序是被动的，处于jing4zhi3状态。	A program in execution, a process is an active entity, which can cause things to occur, as opposed to a program, which is a passive entity.
找出	政府还没有zhao3chu1对付失业的有效措施。	The government hasn't worked out the effectual measures to combat unemployment.
控诉	神判法让被kong4su4的人接受痛苦或危险的考验的一种审判方法，结果被视为神对其是否有罪或清白的审定	A method of trial in which the accused was subjected to physically painful or dangerous tests, the result being regarded as a divine judgment of guilt or innocence.
多次	那问题我向他解释duo1ci4, 他似无所悟.	I explained the problem to him several times but it didn't seem to penetrate.
即兴	弹钢琴的人把乐谱忘了, 只好ji2xing4伴奏.	The pianist forgot his music and had to improvise (the accompaniment).
满月	昨晚是man3yue4。	Last night there was a full moon.
墨水	小男孩的手指让mo4shui3给染脏了。	The little boy stained his fingers with ink.
房门	我打开fang2men2，然后走进屋里。	I unlocked the door and went into the room.
天平	常把蒙著眼睛手持tian1ping2的女人当作正义的象徵.	Justice is often personified as a blindfolded woman holding a pair of scales.
尘土	桌子上有一层薄薄的chen2tu3。	There is a fine layer of dust on the desk.
正要	我zheng4yao4找你。	Just the man I was looking for.
航线	飞机更改了hang2xian4.	The plane altered course.
失礼	在葬礼上发笑或开玩笑是shi1li3的行为。	Laughing and joking are considered improper behaviors at a funeral.
联欢会	在年终lian2huan1hui4季节，晚上是几乎不可能叫到计程车的。	It's next to impossible to catch a taxi at night during the year- end party season.
容量	这库房的rong2liang4是400立方英尺。	The store- room be400 cubic feet in volume.
质问	律师的生意是：zhi4wen4一切事情、得不出任何结果、而按钟点收费说话。	It is the trade of lawyers to question everything, yield nothing, and to talk by the hour.
晚年	她wan3nian2专事写作.	In her later years she gave herself over to writing full-time.
绳索	下雨前，请将帐篷的sheng2suo3放松。	Please slacken the tent rope before it rains.
来看	他们两人是在同一天lai2 kan4我的。	They came to see me on the self-same day.
变动	时间表bian4dong4得如此频繁, 似乎没有什麽道理.	It seems illogical to change the timetable so often.
探测器	热tan4ce4qi4测量热量的敏感接受器	A sensory receptor that detects warmth.
耗尽	他们不停地射击, hao4jin4了所有的弹药.	They went on firing until they had spent all their ammunition.
毛发	护士给病人清洗皮肤、 刮去mao2fa4.	The nurse washed and shaved the patient.
交替	四季循环jiao1ti4。	The seasons follow each other in rotation.
运动会	yun4dong4hui4持续多少天，你知道吗？	How many days, can you guess, did the sports meeting last?
通风	tong1feng1设备出故障了。	The ventilation isn't working.
脑筋	做纵横字谜游戏能锻炼nao3jin1.	Doing crosswords gives the mind some exercise.
醉酒	他因zui4jiu3开车被罚款。	He was fined for driving while intoxicated.
自尊心	这严重地伤害了她的zi4zun1xin1。	It was a severe hurt to her pride.
宇航员	yu3hang2yuan2有特殊的呼吸装置。	The astronauts have special breathing apparatus.
沉溺	正如铁锈会腐蚀铁一样，chen2ni4资产阶级生活方式会消磨掉一个人的革命意志。	Just as rust eats away iron, indulgence in bourgeois ways of life may eat away one's revolutionary will.
重力	zhong4li4天体如地球，所施加的自然吸引力，如地球，对处于或接近其表面的物体有将它们拉向其中心的趋势	The natural force of attraction exerted by a celestial body, such as Earth, upon objects at or near its surface, tending to draw them toward the center of the body.
锁门	你走时别忘了suo3men2。	Don't neglect to lock the door when you leave.
增进	锻炼可zeng1jin4健康。	Exercise promotes health.
副本	原稿已失, 这是fu4ben3.	The original manuscript has been lost; this is a copy.
大队	da4dui4花了６０００元钱买了一台磨面机。	The brigade bought a flour-milling machine for6000 yuan.
飞舞	树叶在风中fei1wu3。	The leaves whirled in the wind.
药丸	这些yao4wan2可以止痛.	These pills bring relief from pain.
低温	冷疗法一种在医疗中局部或全部使用di1wen1的方法	The local or general use of low temperatures in medical therapy.
海峡	英国和法国之间隔著英吉利hai3xia2.	England is separated from France by the Channel.
长远	从chang2yuan3看, 物价肯定要涨.	In the long run pricesare bound to rise.
名词	这一段里面有很多ming2ci2，例如男孩、女孩和书本。	In this paragraph there are many nouns, such as boy, girl, and book.
老化	排水系统已经lao3hua4了。	The drainage system has been aged.
色素	这种疾病能引起面部se4su4斑沉著.	The disease causes patches of pigmentation on the face.
南非	英国来的燕子飞到Nan2fei1那样远的地方。	Swallows from England go as far as South Africa.
听取	法官ting1qu3了他们的忠诚誓言	The judge received their oath of allegiance.
嗅	那狗xiu4出有老鼠的气味。	The dog scented a rat.
书本	这个婴儿打开shu1ben3彷佛他会念书。	The baby opened the book as if he were able to read.
袍	女王在仪式过後脱去了王pao2.	The Queen disrobed after the ceremony.
机车	玩具火车的客车车厢用专门的挂钩挂上了ji1che1。	The carriages of the toy train lock onto the toy train with a special hook.
会场	我不可能及时赶到hui4chang3，除非我赶上了较找的一班火车。	I couldn't have got to the meeting on time -- unless I had caught an earlier train.
法规	我们必须遵守这个国家的fa3gui1。	We must obey the statutes in this country.
分局	税务局：这里是涉外fen1ju2。	Tax official: This is the foreign tax bureau.
标语	一条biao1yu3在黑板正上方。	A slogan is over the blackboard.
格雷	Ge2lei2厄姆，肯尼思1859－1932英国作家，以其散文和儿童文学著名，著名的有杨柳风（1908年）	British writer known for his essays and children's books, notably The Wind in the Willows(1908).
毕生	她bi4sheng1致力于科学。	She dedicated her life to science.
班机	你的这一ban1ji1是英国航空公司的飞机.	Your carrier for this flight is British Airways.
堡垒	这bao3lei3占据控制地位.	The fort occupies a commanding position.
半决赛	我队已有资格进入ban4jue2sai4.	Our team has qualified for the semi-final.
交配	骡子是公驴和母马jiao1pei4而生的杂种动物.	A mule is a hybrid of a male donkey and a female horse.
甜食	我非常偏爱tian2shi2。	I'm very partial to sweet foods.
报价	你若对我们的bao4jia4感兴趣，请与我们联系。	Should you be interested in our offer, please contact us.
差点儿	我cha4dian3r5把对整个这件事的看法向他讲了。	I came near to telling him just what I thought of the whole business.
推断	侦探根据所掌握的线索tui1duan4出作案的人。	Detective deduce from the clue who have commit the crime.
摇晃	桶的yao2huang4使一些牛奶溢了出来。	The sway of the pail cause some milk to spill out.
支持者	他一生都是教会的热心zhi1chi2zhe3。	He has been a pillar of the Church all his life.
求职	我不去问他qiu2zhi2面试的情况, 这是他现在的伤心事.	I wouldn't ask him about his job interview; it's rather a sore point with him at the moment.
反倒	我再一考虑，fan3dao4觉得可能还是她对。	On further reflection, I saw that she might be right, after all.
一行	干这yi1xing2必须心狠, 谁顾别人谁吃亏.	In this business you have to be tough, and the devil take the hindmost.
盖子	这果酱罐的gai4zi5拧不开.	The lid of this jam pot won't unscrew.
缝合	护士在feng2he2伤口前先清洁一下伤口。	The nurse cleansed the wound before stitching it.
体育场	人群慢慢从ti3yu4chang3散去.	The crowds drifted away from the stadium.
巡	那个贼被旅店的xun2察职员抓住了.	The thief was caught by the hotel dick.
来宾	大会议程首先 是向lai2bin1致欢迎辞.	The proceedings will begin with a speech to welcome the guests.
耽搁	委员会的事务因程序上有困难而dan1ge5了.	The business of the committee was delayed by procedural difficulties.
迫使	大雨po4shi3我们呆在户内。	The heavy rain compelled us to stay indoors.
骚动	他的关于种族隔离的谈话激起了sao1dong4。	His talk about apartheid created agitation.
拆开	他把手表chai1kai1来修理。	He took the watch apart to repair it.
至关重要	这些价值对于我们的生活方式是zhi4guan1zhong4yao4的。	Such values are central to our way of life.
外语	精通一门wai4yu3难不难?	Is it difficult to feel at home in (ie confident when using) a foreign language?
深色	我没有适合那种场合的礼服，也许穿shen1se4西服还行吧？	I have no formal clothes for the occasion. Perhaps I can get by in a dark suit?
赛跑	杰克在sai4pao3中的名次排在其他两名运动员之后，而他原来是希望得第一名的。	Jack was placed behind two other runners in the race that he had hoped to win.
受够	你说话太不礼貌了，我已shou4gou4了。	I've had enough of your impertinent words.
到时候	dao4 shi2hou5树就落叶、 花就掉瓣.	Trees shed their leaves and flowers shed their petals.
侵袭	这种植物不容易受病害qin1xi2。	The plant is not susceptible to disease.
来得	今年复活节lai2de5早.	Easter comes early this year.
香料	请给蛋糕多加点xiang1liao4。	Please add more spices to the cake.
摩西	Mo2xi1率领以色列人脱离在埃及的奴隶生涯。	Moses led the Israelites out of their bondage in Egypt.
谋生	该地区的农民不得不在这块贫瘠的土地上挣扎mou2sheng1。	The farmers in this area have to struggle to wrest a living from the infertile soil.
弄清	警方急切地想nong4qing1这一神秘事件的真相。	The police is eager to get to the bottom of this mystery.
栅栏	导向装置用作指向物或用来调整运动方向或运行的装置，如尺子、调整片或zha4lan5	A device, such as a ruler, tab, or bar, that serves as an indicator or acts to regulate a motion or operation.
把柄	扫帚梆在一块儿的枝条、干草或刺毛，缚在一根棍或ba3bing3上，作清扫之用	A bunch of twigs, straw, or bristles bound together, attached to a stick or handle, and used for sweeping.
美洲	他们是在他们因宗教信仰而受到迫害之后来到Mei3zhou1的。	They came to America after being persecuted for their religious beliefs.
除外	他的小说我都爱看, 只是最後一部chu2wai4.	I enjoyed all his novels with the exception of his last.
明了	她在一封长信里阐ming2liao3辞职原因.	She set out the reasons for her resignation in a long letter.
冰球	要参加体育活动--篮球、 bing1qiu2、 游泳之类的活动.	Take any sport basketball, ice hockey, swimming or whatever.
神灵	他们的谈话中充满了渎犯shen2ling2的言词。	Their conversation was full of blasphemy.
银行业	如今，yin2hang2ye4面临许多竞争。	Banking faces much competition nowadays.
护卫	导弹在hu4wei4之下转移.	The missiles were moved under convoy.
公款	部长被查出挪用了gong1kuan3。	The minister was found to have appropriated government money.
患有	她huan4you3消化系统疾病。	She suffered from digestive trouble.
遍地	她一遍又一bian4di4不断哼唱那支歌。	She continued to hum the song over and over.
紊乱	嗜眠病以突然的和不由自主的，虽然通常短暂的深度睡眠发作，有时伴随有麻痹和幻觉为特征的一种wen3luan4	A disorder characterized by sudden and uncontrollable, though often brief, attacks of deep sleep, sometimes accompanied by paralysis and hallucinations.
念书	我今晚不想nian4shu1。	I don't feel like studying tonight.
老乡	从那时起，lao3xiang1们都在谈＂我们的梅大夫＂了。	From then on all the villagers talked about""our Doctor Mei"".
资本主义	zi1ben3 zhu3yi4制度下的被压迫人民生活在一个与我们截然不同的世界里。	The Oppressed people under capitalism live in a world far other
炉子	把锅从lu2zi5上端开时, 汤就不再沸腾了.	The boiling soup subsided when the pot was taken off the heat.
原子弹	yuan2zi3dan4爆炸总是伴随着巨大的火球。	The atomic explosion is always accompanied by huge fireball.
揭发	揭露，泄露；公开揭露或jie1fa1的行为或过程	The act or process of revealing or uncovering.
一眼	她羞怯地从她的扇子后面看了他yi1 yan3。	She glanced shyly at him from behind her fan.
推销员	广告称｀聘请有积极性的年轻人任tui1xiao1yuan2＇.	The advertisementread Young self-starter wanted as salesperson'.
擦干	游泳后，她用毛巾ca1gan1身子。	After her swim she dried herself with a towel.
暴雨	bao4yu3中出现了好多次闪电。	There were many flashes of lightning during the storm.
民主党	Min2zhu3dang3希望在下次大选中重新执政。	The democrats hope to get back at the next election.
准许	对於科学家应该zhun3xu3很大的研究自由。	One should permit a scientist a lot of latitude in his research.
无可奈何	整个晚上wu2ke3 nai4he2地看他们的家庭电影真受罪!	Having to watch their home movies all evening was a fate worse than death!
探亲	他每两年有一次tan4qin1假。	He gets home leave every two years.
柔顺	友善的，和蔼的性情体谅的或和蔼的；和善的，rou2shun4的	Considerate or kindly in disposition; amiable and tender.
无用	他退休后觉得自己年老wu2yong4了。	When he retired he felt that he had outlived his usefulness.
大西洋	飞机在Da4xi1yang2中部飞行时, 其中一个发动机出了故障.	One of the plane's engines gave out in mid-Atlantic.
喧闹	一阵xuan1nao4声转移了我们的注意力。	A loud noise diverted my attention.
爆破	危险! 正在bao4po4!	Danger! Blasting in progress!
毒害	父母们担心他们孩子们的心灵全被他们在电视里经常见到的暴力行为所du2hai4。	Parents are afraid that their child's will be polluted with the violence that they see on television.
文书	wen2shu1工作耗费了委员会许多时间。	Paperwork consumed much of the committee's time.
母子	mu3zi3均平安.	Both mother and baby are doing well.
闻名	奥地利以音乐而wen2ming2。	Austria is famous for its music.
掌管	她尽管人已老了, 然而仍由她zhang3guan3（一切事情）.	She may be old, but she's still in control (of all that is happening).
内战	总统死後全国陷入了nei4zhan4.	The country (was) plunged into civil war after the death of the President.
核武器	人门要求禁止使用he2wu3qi4。	The people ask for a ban-the-bomb.
猛然	meng3ran2间我想起了先前曾在那里见到这个男孩。	It suddenly came back to me where I had seen the boy before.
臣	这位封chen2宣誓他将永远忠诚于国王。	The vassal swore that he would be loyal to the king forever.
人行道	他在去糖果店的路上，把钱掉到地上了，硬币沿着ren2xing2dao4滚动，掉进阴沟里去了。	On him way to the sweet shop, he dropped his sixpence and it rolled along the pavement and then disappeared down a drain.
铲子	当我的眼睛习惯了洞中的黑暗之后。我看见地上有一把旧chan3zi5。	After my eyes became used to the dim light in the cave, I saw an old shovel on the ground.
天线	接收节目前，你应该先装tian1xian4。	You should fix the television antenna before receiving programs.
献身	能为之xian4shen1的最崇高的理想是共产主义。	The noblest ideal to which one can devote oneself is Communism.
军火	宣告贩卖jun1huo3是非法的	Outlawed the sale of firearms.
话剧	那hua4ju4演了两个星期就停演了.	The play folded within a fortnight.
政治家	所有党派的zheng4zhi4jia1们都一致谴责他的行为。	Politicians from all parties were completely unanimous in condemning his action.
挣脱	狐狸zheng4tuo1了束缚跑掉了。	The fox broke loose and ran away.
冷藏	有些水果根本就不能leng3cang2。	Some fruits don't freeze well at all.
厂家	把这些次货退还给chang3jia1.	Send these faulty goods back to the manufacturer.
航海	作为水手获得了hang2hai3的实践经验	Gained practical experience of sailing as a deck hand.
衣着	一个yi1zhuo2华丽的女人走近了草地上的哨兵。	A lady in full feather approached the sentinel on the sward.
盗贼	那伙dao4zei2一定有内应, 协助他们闯了进去.	The thieves must have had someone on the inside to help them break in.
参军	一年以前，他can1jun1了。	He joined the army a year ago.
加点	我们只要给他稍jia1dian3分, 他就能勉强及格.	If we mark him up a tiny bit, he'll just get through.
虚度	她认为看浪漫小说是xu1du4时光。	She thought that reading romantic novels was a frivolous way of spending her time.
吸气	医生叫我xi1qi4然後（再）慢慢地呼出.	The doctor told me to breathe in and then breathe out (again) slowly.
极力	我ji2li4控制住自己没对他喊叫起来。	I only just managed to stop myself from shouting at him.
下水	她教起书来就像鸭子xia4shui3般轻而易举.	She's taken to teaching like a duck to water.
防线	敌人的fang2xian4很坚强, 但仍为我军突破。	The enemy's defenses were strong but our soldiers broke through.
山洞	＂这个探测队接着把整个shan1dong4彻底地搜寻了一遍，但是，除了一只空铁皮箱以外什么也没找到。＂	The party then searched the whole cave thoroughly but did not find anything except an empty tin trunk.
雇主	gu4zhu3解雇工人导致了罢工事件。	The dismissals led to a strike.
县城	开汽车的人让两个小学生上车，把他们一直带到了xian4cheng2。	The motorist picked up a couple of pupils and took them as far as the county town.
头顶	一颗子弹从他tou2ding3上呼啸而过。	A bullet whistled past his head.
把门	他们使劲ba3men2撞破.	They rammed the door to smash it down.
山路	狭隘的shan1lu4崎岖不平。	The mountain path is narrow and rugged.
术语	别尽用那种专门shu4yu3--用普通的词语解释吧.	Don't use all that technical lingo try and explain in plain English.
追问	那位发言者遭到了连珠炮般的zhui1wen4。	The speaker was bombarded with questions.
迷住	我们被美丽的景色mi2zhu5了。	The beauty of the scene filled us with enchantment.
神情	她脸上显出严厉、 木然的shen2qing2.	Her face wore a grim, set look.
樱花	我喜欢ying1hua1。	I like oriental cherry.
复活节	Fu4huo2jie2期间，到教堂做礼拜的人多了。	At Easter, attendances at church rose.
打下	重工业的稳固发展为这些进展da3xia4了基础.	These developments are underpinned by solid progress in heavy industry.
上星期	这家新图书馆shang4xing1qi1正式落成起用。	This new library was officially opened last week.
未经	活页文选小短文或专题论文，常关于一个流行的题目，出版时wei4jing1装订	A short essay or treatise, usually on a current topic, published without a binding.
手指头	就用shou3zhi3tou5指着名单往下看，看是不是所有的人的名字都在上面，好吗？	Just run your finger down the list and see if all the names are there, will you?
搭乘	我可以da1cheng2你的便车到车站吗？	Can I hitch a lift with you as far as the station?
篮子	酒椰纤维这种植物的叶片纤维，可用作席子、lan2zi5和其它产品	The leaf fibers of this plant, used for mats, baskets, and other products.
矿工	kuang4gong1们下决心等到他们的要求得到满足后再复工。	The miners are determined to stop out until their demands are met.
北极熊	我从未见过bei3ji2xiong2。	I have never seen an arctic bear.
红旗	hong2qi2是危险的信号。	A red flag is a sign of danger.
难民	她在nan4min2中工作是因为她有很深的信念.	A deep faith underlies her work among refugees.
会谈	即将举行的hui4tan2给实现真正的裁军带来了希望。	The forthcoming talk hold out the hope of real arms reduction.
何等	棚户区之行使我深切地感到那里的人民he2deng3的贫穷。	A trip through the shanty town brought home to me just how poor the people are.
车轮	che1lun2在泥路上留下凹痕。	Wheels leave grooves in dirt roads.
法定	旧制的英镑纸币已不是fa3ding4的货币了.	The old pound note is no longer legal tender.
上吊	我们头顶上的天花板shang4diao4著一盏灯.	A lamp was suspended from the ceiling above us.
岔口	走到cha4kou3处向左拐.	Go up to the fork and turn left.
不大	乘划艇去救他们, 希望bu4da4.	Going to their rescue in a rowing-boat is a bit of a forlorn hope.
高处	这座城堡建于gao1chu4是为保护城市。	This citadel is built on high ground for protecting the city.
扭伤	他跳下去的时候niu3shang1了足踝。	He gave a wrench to his ankle when he jumped down.
总的来说	zong3de5lai2shuo1, 公司对我一直很好.	By and large, the company's been pretty good to me.
实况	我正想把shi2kuang4告诉他；但他打断了我的话。	I was trying to tell him what really happened, but he cut me short.
百分	天才的bai3fen1之一是灵感，bai3fen1之九十九是血汗。	Genius is one per cent inspiration and ninety- nine per cent perspiration.
假冒	jia3mao4的，伪造的	Counterfeit or fake.
出版社	chu1ban3she4侵犯了他的版权。	The publishing house infringed his copyright.
木板	这艘帆船的甲板是用厚mu4ban3制作的。	The deck of the sailing ship was made of thick planks.
丢下	观看锦标赛的观众们diu1xia4的废物，实非笔墨所能描述。	The rubbish left behind by the Cup Final crowd beggars description.
落叶	luo4ye4盘旋著飘到了地上.	The falling leaf spiralled to the ground.
口语	kou3yu3体kou3yu3化或kou3yu3用法	Colloquial style or quality.
自立	我设法zi4li4而不求助于我的父母。	I tried to stand on my own two feet rather than turned to my parents.
农药	它不会伤害你，但是nong2yao4会。	It won't hurt you, but chemicals will.
此处	在这条街上停车是ci3chu4居民特有的权利.	Parking in this street is the privilege of the residents.
水池	水（从贮shui3chi2）缓缓流出.	The water slowly emptied (from the cistern).
招手	她zhao1shou3要我跟著她.	She beckoned (to) me (to follow).
数百	这个种植园里有shu4bai3名奴隶。	There were hundreds of slaves in the plantation.
做菜	他们闻到zuo4cai4的味儿, 知道眼看要吃饭了.	The smell of cooking told them there was a meal in the offing.
交错	她使她的手指和我的手指jiao1cuo4。	She interlaced her fingers with mine.
指派	哨站，岗位如卫兵或哨兵的zhi3pai4的站岗位置	An assigned position or station, as of a guard or sentry.
字体	印刷zi4ti3太小，我不带眼镜就看不清。	The print is too small for me to read without glasses.
链子	狗拴著lian4zi5, 是怎麽挣脱开的呢?	The dog was chained, so how did it get free?
盎司	克鲁格金币南非共和国发行的一ang4si1金币	A one-ounce gold coin of the Republic of South Africa.
放荡	他的fang4dang4的行为使他的母亲极为苦恼。	His wild behavior was a great distress to his mother.
绷带	伤口用beng1dai4包扎着。	The wound was bound up by bandage.
日元	把我的电视机修好要花去我10000ri4yuan2。	It cost me ten thousand yen to have my television set repaired.
权益	工会说他们将采取行动维护会员的工作quan2yi4。	The union said that they would take action to defend their member's jobs.
水里	把那棵植物在shui3li5浸泡几分钟。	Please immerse the plant in water for a few minutes.
工夫	在我还没gong1fu5往掌上吐一口唾沫之前，他已经把那件工作做完了。	Before I had time to spit in my hands, he finished the work.
平方米	办公室的面积是35ping2fang1mi3.	The area of the office is 35 square metres.
临终	在他lin2zhong1时我在身边侍候。	I ministered to him in his last hours.
登山	这次攀登并不难－－对於有经验的deng1shan1运动员应是轻而易举的事。	It's not a difficult climb it should be child's play for an experienced mountaineer.
滚动	他在去糖果店的路上，把钱掉到地上了，硬币沿着人行道gun3dong4，掉进阴沟里去了。	On him way to the sweet shop, he dropped his sixpence and it rolled along the pavement and then disappeared down a drain.
后边	他决心去看看办公室hou4bian5的那些房间。	He determined to view the rooms behind the office.
心不在焉	过分关注某事的；xin1 bu4 zai4 yan1的	Excessively concerned with something; distracted.
口子	他的脚在一块碎玻璃上划了一个大kou3zi5。	He gashed his foot on a piece of broken glass.
撞见	她zhuang4jian4他正在搜查她的房间.	She came upon him unawares as he was searching her room.
小路	他们通过一条xiao3lu4爬到山上。	They climbed up the mountain through a defile.
擅	他们未经许可shan4入该地.	They entered the area without permission.
卖掉	他们这个下午mai4diao4了十箱矿泉水。	They have sold up ten crates of mineral water in the afternoon.
痉挛	jing4luan2一种由于紧张或寒冷而导致的肌肉突发性、无意识的、间歇性的紧缩，能导致剧烈的疼痛，通常发生在腿部或肩部	A sudden, involuntary, spasmodic muscular contraction causing severe pain, often occurring in the leg or shoulder as the result of strain or chill.
民事	这是一桩min2shi4案件，因此他没有被送进监狱的可能。	It was a civil case so there was no question of him being sent to prison.
长岛	欧申赛德美国纽约东南部一个还未合并的位于Chang2dao3南岸的社区。欧寻赛德是一个以住宅及休养为主的城镇。人口32，423	An unincorporated community of southeast New York on the southern shore of Long Island. Oceanside is a residential and resort town. Population, 32,423.
诸如此类	明信片上只写了“祝你过得很愉快”，“真希望你在也这儿”或zhu1ru2ci3lei4的话。	The card just said""Having wonderful time.""""Wish you were here"" or some such things.
过早	他因guo4zao3出院而使病情恶化.	He aggravated his condition by leaving hospital too soon.
细微	温度有xi4wei1的变化。	There is an imperceptible change in temperature.
前夕	玩具销售额在圣诞节qian2xi1达到最高峰, 现已逐渐下降.	Toy sales peaked just before Christmas and are now decreasing.
挥舞	老人对著那条要咬他的狗hui1wu3手杖吓它走。	The old man brandishes his walking stick at the menace dog.
退化	多看电视会使你的头脑tui4hua4。	Too much television rots your brain.
失灵	汽车刹车shi1ling2撞在墙上了.	The brakes failed to grip (ie engage with and stop the wheels) and the car ran into a wall.
葡萄干	甜馅由切得很碎的苹果、pu2tao2gan1、香料、肉，有时加朗姆酒或白兰地合成的混合物，尤用作馅饼的馅	A mixture, as of finely chopped apples, raisins, spices, meat, and sometimes rum or brandy, used especially as a pie filling.
武力	大国力图用wu3li4来解决问题。	Powers tried to throw the sword into the scale.
圆形	正方形有四条边，而yuan2xing2没有边。	A square has four sides but a circle has no sides.
无害	该药本身并wu2hai4处, 但与酒类同服则有危险.	The drug is not harmful per se, but is dangerous when taken with alcohol.
日光	ri4guang1的照射使颜色变淡了。	The sunlight has bleached the colour out.
烛光	光度视网膜亮度单位，相当于每平方米有一zhu2guang1亮度的表面，通过一平方毫米的瞳孔区域，到达视网膜的光线数量	A unit of retinal illumination, equal to the amount of light that reaches the retina through 1 square millimeter of pupil area from a surface having a brightness of 1 candela per square meter.
大屠杀	战争是一场da4tu2sha1。	War is mass murder.
每月	我们学校同最近的一家商店mei3 yue4订购50盒粉笔。	Our school contracted with the nearest shop for50 boxes of chalk a month.
浓缩	水冶金术通过液体过程，象过滤，提炼，沉淀等方法处理金属，从矿石中或矿石nong2suo1物中分离出金属	The treatment of metal or the separation of metal from ores and ore concentrates by liquid processes, such as leaching, extraction, and precipitation.
经济学	一个管理人员要想改善管理的话，就必须学点jing1ji4xue2。	A manager has to learn some economics if he wants to improve his management.
过得	我们的假日guo4de2好无聊，每天都下雨。	We had a mouldy holiday - it rained every day.
运河	苏伊士yun4he2连接著地中海和红海.	The Suez Canal joins the Mediterranean and the Red Sea.
代理人	执行者通过执行特定的命令或起特定作用而充当他人的dai4li3ren2的人	A person serving as an agent for another by carrying out specified orders or functions.
散开	人群san4kai1了.	The crowd dispersed (in all directions).
光亮	老先生喜欢喜欢给头发擦上发膏使它guang1liang4。	The old gentleman likes to put grease on his hair to make it shiny.
会计师	承包合同批给了总kuai4ji4shi1的朋友, （可谓）各有好处、 串通一气.	The contract went to a friend of the chief accountant: it's (a case of) you scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
行进	我们在夜幕掩护下xing2jin4.	We travelled under cover of darkness.
大名	好的。请您告诉我贵姓及da4ming2的头一个字母。	Ok may I have your last name and first initial, please?
插头	临睡前请拔下电视机的cha1tou2.	Please unplug the TV before you go to bed.
讲解	请把这个问题给我jiang3jie3一下.	Please explain this problem to me.
房客	我把多余的房间出租（给fang2ke4）.	I let (out) my spare rooms (to lodgers).
时日	shi2ri4在无穷的展望中延展着。	The days stretch out in an endless vista.
群岛	日本在菲律宾qun2dao3的北面。	Japan lies to the north of Philippines.
书桌	他拼命在她的shu1zhuo1里搜寻那封信。	He was rifling through her desk in a desperate search for the letter.
马来西亚	纳闽岛Ma3lai2xi1ya4婆罗洲东北海岸的一座岛屿。有一段时期曾为英国的直辖殖民地（1848年以后），1963年成为Ma3lai2xi1ya4的一部分	An island of Malaysia off the northeast coast of Borneo. At one time a British crown colony(after1848), it became part of Malaysia in1963.
不怎么	在当前评论风气影响下，她的作品bu4 zen3me5受欢迎。	In the current critical climate her work is not popular.
穿透	水在chuan1tou4岩石的过程中获得了净化.	Water is purified by passing through rock.
毁坏	蝗虫群hui3huai4了所有的庄稼和蔬菜。	The locust swarm has destroyed all the crops and vegetables.
制品	该油漆以粉zhi4pin3形式出售.	The paint is sold in powdered form.
恶性	这个瘤不是e4xing4的.	The growth is not malignant.
肃静	他们都保持su4jing4。	They all maintained a reverent silence.
放任	我姐姐在假日里对孩子们fang4ren4不管，以至于有一段时间闹得很厉害，使邻居都感到厌烦。	My sister left her children so much to themselves during the holidays that for a time they ran wild and became a nuisance to the neighbourhood.
棚	木匠量了一下peng2屋的尺寸, 立刻估计出它的大小。	The carpenter ran his ruler over the shed and sized it up at once.
水上	长于陆海空作战的，三栖的可在陆上、shui3shang4或空中操作的	Designed to operate on land, water, or in air.
浇水	我母亲上星期没有给花园里jiao1shui3。	My mother didn't water the garden last week.
深感	他对他的错shen1gan3羞愧.	He felt mortified for his mistake.
伟人	他喜欢读wei3ren2传记来提高自己。	He likes to read biographies of great men to promote himself.
容许	在我们家&nbsp;&nbsp;不rong2xu3吸烟.	We don't allow smoking in our house.
发亮	猫的眼睛在黑暗中fa1liang4。	The cat's eyes glowed in the darkness.
凉水	杰克匆匆脱下衬衫和长裤，跳进liang2shui3中。	Jack threw off his shirt and trousers and plunged into the cool water.
尚未	这些小学生shang4wei4学会正确使用标点符号.	The children have not yet learned to punctuate correctly.
大风	da4feng1刮断了电线。	The heavy wind cut off the wire.
折断	他把花茎zhe2duan4，汁液就流了出来。	The sap flowed out when he broke the stem of the flower.
垫子	她把dian4zi5绣上了花.	She embroidered the cushion with flowers.
关头	她在危急guan1tou2总是挺身而出.	She's always to the fore at moments of crisis.
碾	那只猫被卡车nian3死了。	The cat got run over by the lorry and squashed.
客车	ke4che1上坐满了老太太。	The coach is full of elderly ladies.
透彻	他举了具体的例子才把论点讲tou4che4。	He drove home his point by citing specific examples.
恩惠	我非常感激您的en1hui4。	I am greatly indebted to you for your kindness.
饮水	农场有一个供牛yin3shui3的池塘。	The farm has a pond from which the cattle can drink.
军营	难民暂时安置在一座旧jun1ying2里.	The refugees are being lodged in an old army camp.
光明正大	他乘机利用她的无知和单纯，这种做法是不guang1ming2-zheng4da4的。	He takes advantage of her ignorance and simplicity; it isn't cricket.
眉头	他心事重重，mei2tou2紧锁。	Care sat heavily on his brow.
急需	妹妹生病，ji2xu1用钱。	Sister ill money urgently needed
分公司	为发展业务, 我们决定开一家fen1gong1si1。	With a view to develop our business, we decided to establish a branch office.
遮掩	蚀天体的部分或全部受到其他天体的zhe1yan3而变得晦暗，这种现象与特定观测者相关	The partial or complete obscuring, relative to a designated observer, of one celestial body by another.
炮弹	pao4dan4在四处爆炸。	Shells were bursting all around.
欢度	我们一起huan1du4的那个晚上是我最快乐的事情之一。	That evening together is one of my happiest recollections.
董事	dong3shi4会，理事会一个组织dong3shi4们的全体，尤指公司的理事会	The body of directors of an organization, especially of a corporation.
活人	成年地做一种单调工作, 能把huo2ren2也做成机器人.	Years of doing the same dull job can turn you into a machine.
阵雨	在广州下很多zhen4yu3。	It showers a lot in Guangzhou.
归属	两国之间存在着涉及那个岛屿gui1shu3的领土争端。	The two countries had a territorial dispute over which one owned the island.
初期	这项目尚处於chu1qi1阶段时就取消了.	The project was cancelled while it was still in its infancy.
绊倒	小心别在地席上ban4dao3了.	Be careful you don't trip (up) on the mat.
星辰	舞台和银幕上一颗璀璨的xing1chen2；历史上的辉煌一刻	One of the bright stars of stage and screen; a bright moment in history.
奥地利	别把澳大利亚和Ao4di4li4混淆了。	Please don't confuse Australia with Austria.
上层	她出身shang4ceng2社会[她社会地位极高].	She's out of the top drawer/She's very top drawer.
内存	这台计算机的nei4cun2是256K。	This computer has a 256K memory.
引进	她把来访者yin3jin4屋子里。	She ushered the visitor into the room.
从来不	史密斯先生擅长做很多事情，但他cong2lai2 bu4表现自己。	Mr Smith is expert at a lot of things, but he always hides his light under a bushel.
拴	我们把马shuan1在桩上，走进了客栈。	I hung up my horse and walked into the inn.
蒸汽	在进入喷嘴之前，zheng1qi4处于高压状态。	Prior to entering the nozzle, the steam is at high pressure.
摆弄	他若继续bai3nong4那钟表，那非把它弄坏不可。	If he keeps fiddling with the clock, he is sure to put it out of order.
七十	他爷爷快qi1shi2岁了。	His grandfather is nearly seventy.
军用	新政府将他的地产徵作jun1yong4.	The new government expropriated his estate for military purposes.
供应商	我的部分工作是同我们的gong1ying4shang1保持良好的关系。	Part of my job is to maintain good relationship with our suppliers.
亲笔	我有许多著名足球运动员的qin1bi3签名.	I've got lots of famous footballers' autographs.
毒性	耳du2xing4的对耳结构有毒害影响的，尤指对耳神经感觉	Having a toxic effect on the structures of the ear, especially on its nerve supply.
水泡	他的鞋子太重，脚上磨出了shui3pao4。	His heavy shoes raised blisters on his feet.
截然不同	镇上有些所谓的娱乐, 但与城里的jie2ran2 bu4 tong2.	The town offers entertainments of a kind, but nothing like what you'll find in the city.
黄蜂	盖上果酱瓶! 要不准得招huang2feng1.	Cover the jam! It's sure to invite the wasps.
装饰品	我刚才把你的一个瓷器zhuang1shi4pin3弄掉了。	I've just dropped one of your china ornamental.
篝火	那gou1huo3只有余烬尚存。	Only the embers of the bonfire remained.
加仑	消耗量就是以每小时jia1lun2表示的所耗费的燃料总数。	Consumption is the total amount of fuel consumed expressed in gallons per hour.
工作者	去年他被推选出席了先进gong1zuo4zhe3会议。	Last year he was chosen to attend a conference of advanced workers.
不公	六个月监禁的判决极其bu4gong1。	The sentence of six months imprisonment was most unjust.
脱落	这平底锅上的搪瓷有些已tuo1luo4.	Some of the enamel on this pan is chipped off.
牛津	我们中午能到Niu2jin1吗?	D'you think we'll make Oxford by midday?
讯号	变频器将无线电xun4hao4从一种频率转换成另一种频率的电子装置	An electronic device that converts one frequency of a radio signal to another.
衰竭	终止于shuai1jie2是“死亡”，但“圆满”却终止于无穷。	That which ends in exhaustion is death, but the perfect ending is in the endless.
变革	人民群众普遍反对突然实行的bian4ge2.	The populace at large is/are opposed to sudden change.
加深	他的微笑jia1shen1了，但他没有打算要回答。	His smile deepened, but he made no attempt to answer.
重伤	这名士兵胸部受了zhong4shang1。	The soldier received a serious wound on the chest.
效忠	他宣誓对国王xiao4zhong1。	He took an oath of fealty to the king.
相交	AB线和CD线在P点xiang1jiao1.	AB and CD intersect at (the point) P.
顺从	一个正直的法官不能一味shun4cong2舆论。	An honest judge cannot be servile to public opinion.
新房	这家公司估计这栋xin1fang2的造价为8，000英镑。	The firm estimated the cost of the new house at￡8, 000.
接替	jie1ti4他担任主席的人将参加本次会议。	His successor as the chairman will be at the conference.
长处	忍耐是他的chang2chu4。	Patience is his strong suit.
荒芜	我们已经灌溉了huang1wu2地区使它肥沃。	We have irrigated the desert area to make it fertile.
遇难	在伦敦遭空袭时, 有很多老百姓yu4nan4.	Many civilians were killed in the air raids on London.
列出	他详细lie4chu1全部被盗的财物。	He gave full particulars of the stolen property.
零售	我以ling2shou4方式买来这些牛奶。	I bought the milk retail.
瓷器	包装ci2qi4时在周围多放些包装材料。	Put plenty of wrapping round the china when you pack it.
左侧	汽车碰撞时zuo3ce4的翼子板撞坏了。	The nearside wing was damaged in the collision.
子孙	半神半人的女神神与人的女性zi3sun1，她拥有一部分但并不是全部神的力量	A female being, often the offspring of a god and a mortal, who has some but not all of the powers of a goddess.
粒子	衰变的具有相对较短的寿命而衰变，常用于亚原子li4zi3	Decaying with relatively short lifetime. Used of subatomic particles.
谈到	tan2dao4批改我们的作业，老师总是让我们自己改。	As to correct our homework, the teacher always make us do it ourselves.
驱动	这些机器都是由电动机qu1dong4的。	The machines are driven by electric motors.
竟敢	你jing4gan3诽谤我妻子的人格!	How dare you cast aspersions on my wife's character!
胶卷	你用的jiao1juan3感光度是多少?	What's the speed of the film you're using?
果酱	到柜子那儿把guo3jiang4取下来。	Go to the cupboard and get down the jam.
养育	她yang3yu4了五个孩子.	She brought up five children.
提包	＂入境时，我的ti2bao1在海关受到了检查。＂	My suitcases were examined at the Customs when I entered the country.
花草	我准备到汉普敦的苗圃去买些hua1cao3.	I'm going to the nursery/nurseries in Hampton to buy some plants.
制造商	这台机器的zhi4zao4shang1在哪？	Where is the manufacturer of the machine?
展出	汽车展览会上zhan3chu1了今年所有的新型号。	All this year's new models are displayed at the motor show.
序列	产生某种指定类型和格式的结果的程序或另一种编码xu4lie4（如“宏生成程序”、“微代码生成程序”）。	A program or other coding sequence that produces a result of specified type and format(""a macro generator"";""a microcode generator"").
鞭子	他用bian1zi5轻轻抽马.	He flicked the horse with his whip/flicked his whip at the horse.
辨别	你能bian4bie2这两个品种吗?	Can you differentiate between the two varieties?
便车	他搭乘bian4che1往南去意大利，然后从那里进入法国。	He hitched south towards Italy, and thence into France.
学好	要xue2hao3英语就要处处学习用英语思考。	To learn English well one has to learn to think in English at every turn.
编码	在计算机程序运行过程中发生的一种不希望有的或意料之外的停机，一般是由于bian1ma3失误、硬件故障或操作者的错误而引起的。参阅run。	In computing, an unwanted or unforeseen halt in a program run, due to faulty coding, hardware errors or operator mistakes.
衰弱	他喝酒过多, 身体逐渐shuai1ruo4了.	He started to drink too much and gradually ran to seed.
羊羔	yang2gao1皮革用绵羊皮制成的柔软皮革，尤其用来制作手套	Soft leather made from sheepskin, used especially for gloves.
烫伤	锅炉爆炸时她被tang4shang1了。	She was scalded when the boiler exploded.
后头	不久他就跑在hou4tou5了。	Soon he fell behind in the race.
槽	他在食cao2里放了些草。	He put some grass in the manger.
高等	动物生态的高级形式；gao1deng3数学	High forms of animal life; higher mathematics.
伯伯	他bo2bo5特别喜爱他.	He is a favourite with his uncle/a favourite of his uncle's/his uncle's favourite.
显示器	在打印机或xian3shi4qi4中，一种用于控制打印或显示信息的布局或位置的控制字符。	In a printer or display, a control character used to control the layout or location of information.
难听	我忍不住常哼那支nan2ting1的果冻广告歌。	I can't stop humming that awful jelly jingle.
稿子	我心里还没个准gao3zi5。	I haven't got any definite plan yet.
拼写	把这个字抄写十遍就能记住怎麽pin1xie3了.	Write out this word ten times so that you learn how to spell it.
列入	请把我lie4ru4名单中。	Please include me in the list.
产物	这个协议是双方妥协的chan3wu4而不是一方让步.	The agreement is a compromise, not a sell-out.
税收	这一shui4shou1制度一旦施行，必定会危害国民经济。	This tax can not be introduced without detriment to the economy.
色拉	甜椒的果实其果，用来烧菜，做se4la1或绿橄榄的佐料	The fruit of this plant, used in cookery, salad, and as stuffing for green olives.
低音	di1yin1的与一相对少量的每秒钟音波周期相对应的di1yin1的	Having a pitch corresponding to a relatively small number of sound-wave cycles per second.
党员	她是缴（清）了党费的dang3yuan2.	She's a (fully) ,paid-up member of the party.
总归	儿子zong3gui1要离开家的, 这种事很难免.	It is only to be expected your son will leave home eventually.
游乐场	新的住宅区一直延伸到you2le4chang3的那一边.	The new housing estate stretches beyond the playing-fields.
夺取	最后公民们奋起反抗残忍的统治者们，将他们逐出国，并duo2qu3了政权。	The citizens at last rebelled against their cruel rulers, drove them from the country and took power themselves.
过日子	一些独居的男人宁肯靠罐头食品guo4ri4zi5，也不愿自己烧饭吃。	Some men on their own will live out of tins rather than cook meals for themselves.
照明	这些街道的zhao4ming2很差.	These streets are very poorly lit.
乘车	只有这家旅店提供免费cheng2che1去机场的服务。	A free bus to the airport is a facility offered only by this hotel.
显眼	她手臂上有一块xian3yan3的伤痕.	She had a dilly of a bruise on her arm.
弹奏	他的儿子是一个三岁就能tan2zou4钢琴的早慧儿童。	His son is a precocious child who could play the piano at the age of three.
骡子	luo2zi5既无足以自豪的祖宗，亦无可以寄托希望的子孙。	A mule have neither pride of ancestry nor hope of posterity.
披肩	我送给她一条编织的pi1jian1作圣诞礼物。	I gave her a knitted shawl as a Christmas gift.
奉上	我公司伦敦分公司向贵公司开出面额300，000元的汇票一张，兹同函feng4shang4，请承兑后寄还为荷。	Enclosed we hand you a draft,$300,000, draw on you by our london house. kindly accept same and return.
高低	他在那gao1di1不平的地面上才走了几步，就被绊了一下，直挺挺地跌趴在地上。	He had not gone many steps before he stumbled on the uneven ground and fell flat on his face.
栏杆	一只鸽子栖息在我们门廊的lan2gan1上。	A pigeon perched on our porch railing.
放映	当他们在fang4ying4幻灯片时，要我保持清醒是不可能的。	It is impossible to stay awake when they show slides.
好战	我们应该始终牢记日本是一个hao4zhan4的国家。	We should always remember that Japan is a martial nation.
追溯	该项法规具有zhui1su4效力。	The legislation was made retrospective.
园丁	据说法国人是世界上最好的yuan2ding1。	It is said that the Frenchman may be the best gardener in the world.
每日	文件mei3ri4存取, 使之不断更新.	The files were accessed every day to keep them up to date.
长出	在工厂后面的荒地上突然zhang3chu1了草木。	Greenery has sprouted out in the waste land behind the factory.
引人注目	这间屋子在村子的中心草地上，处于yin3ren2zhu4mu4的位置。	The house is in a prominent position on the village green.
假定	我们大家可以一起走--jia3ding4其他人不耽搁的话.	We can all leave together assuming (that) the others aren't late.
铲	手chan3刀身尖突并呈chan3状的小型器具，在种植植物时用来挖土	A small implement with a pointed, scoop-shaped blade used for digging, as in setting plants.
招待会	她设法弄到了zhao1dai4hui4的请帖.	She managed to wangle an invitation to the reception.
前年	qian2nian2圣诞节过後我一直没见过他.	I haven't seen him since the Christmas before last.
上行	这个计划道理shang4xing2得通, 但不现实。	The plan is feasible in reason but impractical.
赶往	她匆匆gan3wang3机场。	She hurried to the airport.
特性	不是一切形式的物质都具有相同的te4xing4的。	All forms of matter do not have the same properties.
自来水	在乾旱时, 每天有几小时停止供应zi4lai2shui3.	The water was turned off for several hours a day during the drought.
倒退	我希望时光能够dao4tui4回去，我可以重新去过学生时代的生活。我后悔当初不够努力，没有通过更多的考试。	I wish I could put the clock back and relive my schooldays; I regret not having tried harder and passed more exams.
裂开	我头疼得要lie4kai1似的。	I've got a splitting headache.
面容	她对着镜子作出各种mian4rong2。	She was making faces in the glass.
手提箱	shou3ti2xiang1裂开了，里面的东西纷纷落在地板上。	The suitcase burst open and its contents rained on the floor.
不复	这些条件已bu4fu4存在了。	These conditions no longer obtain.
参议院	can1yi4yuan4决议如下...	The senate resolved that...
白兰地	我昨晚喝了一小瓶bai2lan2di4。	I drank a miniature bottle of brandy last night.
水库	由于大旱四个月，shui3ku4干枯了。	The reservoir dried up during the four-month drought.
小孩儿	这xiao3hai2r5吐了我一身.	The baby puked (up) all over me.
留学生	她是个在英国的外国liu2xue2sheng1。	She is an overseas student in Britain.
打转	薄雾在那座古老的城堡的周围da3zhuan4转。	The mist eddied round the old castle.
理科	他是li3ke1主考人之一。	He is one of the science examiners.
走去	我们正向家的方向zou3qu4。	We are heading home.
深切	对於令夫人之去世, 谨向您表示最shen1qie4的慰问.	You have my deepest sympathies on the death of your wife.
扫帚	sao4zhou5梆在一块儿的枝条、干草或刺毛，缚在一根棍或把柄上，作清扫之用	A bunch of twigs, straw, or bristles bound together, attached to a stick or handle, and used for sweeping.
日渐	随着病情加重，她的身体ri4jian4衰弱。	She weakened as the illness grew worse.
下星期	我们的秘书刚刚辞职, xia4xing1qi1特别令人担心.	Next week will be particularly fraught as we've just lost our secretary.
瘦肉	包饺子前，我把shou4rou4细细剁碎。	I minced the lean meat finely before making dumplings.
难看	这座建筑物很不起眼, 甚至可以说很nan2kan4.	It's an unattractive building, even ugly/ugly even.
核对	所有项目都已he2dui4过了。	All these items have been checked up.
上述	shang4shu4价格不包括佣金在内。	The above price excludes your commission.
附加	附言，续篇如一本书或一篇文章正文后的fu4jia1信息	Additional information appended to the manuscript, as of a book or an article.
饭馆	那是我以前最喜欢的fan4guan3，但近来烹饪水平已大不如前了。	It used to be my favourite restaurant but the standard of cooking has fallen off recently.
志愿	在我们的城市，许多社会服务仍然是有zhi4yuan4团体提供的。	Many social services are still provided by voluntary societies in our city.
排出	这座工厂pai2chu1的化学物质改变了整个地区的生态.	Chemicals in the factory's sewage system have changed the ecology of the whole area.
乌云	wu1yun2预示着暴风雨的到来。	The clouds presage a storm.
作对	我认为他侵占我的停车位肯定是有意和我zuo4dui4。	I'm sure he took my parking space just to spite me.
河水	he2shui3冲破了堤岸。	The river broke its banks.
洋娃娃	那yang2wa2wa5的腰和颈可以转动.	The doll pivots at the waist and neck.
视察	他对这个地区进行了多次shi4cha2。	He made a number of inspections.
立法	组织秘书发给本党党员的通知在li4fa3机构中传达给政党成员的一个在特定时间保证其出勤率的通知	A call issued to party members in a lawmaking body to ensure attendance at a particular time.
高压	在进入喷嘴之前，蒸汽处于gao1ya1状态。	Prior to entering the nozzle, the steam is at high pressure.
开销	这些收音机制造厂产品打不kai1xiao5路.	The producers of the radios could not find a market for them.
较为	风势已减弱, 做帆船运动jiao4wei2安全了.	The wind has moderated, making sailing safer.
一身	新娘穿yi1shen1白色的礼服.	The bride was dressed in white.
手电筒	他们预见到天快黑了, 就都带上了shou3dian4tong3.	Anticipating that it would soon be dark, they all took torches.
暴风雪	因为bao4feng1xue3，经常去做礼拜的人没有去教堂。	Because of the snowstorm, the churchgoer did not go to church.
倒塌	别靠近! 那建筑物随时可能dao3ta1.	Keep back! The building could collapse at any moment.
供养	他需要有高收入才能gong1yang3得起这样一个大家庭。	He needs a high income to support such a large family.
所在地	在美国，华盛顿是政府suo3zai4di4，纽约是主要的商业中心。	In the US, Washington is the seat of government and New York City is the chief seat of commerce.
瞳孔	进入黑暗的房间时, tong2kong3就扩大.	The pupils of your eyes dilate when you enter a dark room.
突如其来	灌木丛中tu1 ru2 qi2 lai2的响声把她的马吓惊了.	The sudden noise in the bushes startled her horse.
带动	踏板一种由脚操纵dai4dong4圆周运动的踏板或杠杆，如制陶者的陶车或缝纫机的踏板	A pedal or lever operated by the foot for circular drive, as in a potter's wheel or sewing machine.
窗台	他把一些书放在chuang1tai2上。	He keeps some books on the window ledge.
榨	甘蔗渣在汁液被zha4完以后剩下的甘蔗废料	The refuse of sugar cane after extraction of the juice.
修剪	被xiu1jian3坏后丧失生命力的植物	Plants that lost their vitality when badly pruned.
礼堂	晨会在学校li3tang2举行.	Morning assembly is held in the school hall.
写字	孩子们正在学习读书xie3zi4.	The children are learning to read and write.
公分	那楝房屋下陷约十gong1fen1。	The house has sunk about ten centimeters.
头颅	唉，又是倒霉啦！假如我是被养大当帽子工人的，生下来的孩子可能都没带tou1lu2来的吧。	Just like my luck! If I had been bred a hatter, little boys would have come into the world without heads.
辞去	我现在ci2qu4主席职位，交由我的副手接替。	I am resigning as chairman and handing over to my deputy.
宣读	委员会开始讨论之前，先xuan1du2了上次的会议记录。	Before the committee started its work, the minutes of the last meeting were read out.
小溪	xiao3xi1在这儿分岔。	The stream diverges here.
花边	她的裙子有非常精致的hua1bian1。	Her skirt has very exquisite lace.
甘蔗	gan1zhe5丛茂密的gan1zhe5林	A dense thicket of cane.
切割	锯缝，劈痕qie1ge1型工具如锯或斧子所制造的沟槽或凹口	A groove or notch made by a cutting tool, such as a saw or an ax.
倾倒	她的美貌qing1dao3了很多男青年。	Her beauty enslaved many young men.
油菜	you2cai4籽you2cai4类植物的果实	The seed of the rape plant.
柱子	他在zhu4zi5上涂上了起保护作用的液体.	He painted the posts with a preservative liquid.
依次	请把这份文件yi1ci4传递给他人。	Please hand on the document to others.
减弱	风势已jian3ruo4了、 温度已下降了、 水平面已降低了很多.	The wind, temperature, water level, etc has dropped considerably.
谢意	这些花是用来对您的恩惠略表xie4yi4的.	These flowers are a small acknowledgement of your great kindness.
内阁	在nei4ge2会议上讨论了这个问题。	The question was discussed in cabinet.
成品	在这个试验车道，标准汽车cheng2pin3将接受有意的毁坏性测试。	On this test track, the standard production cars will be subjected to rough treatment deliberately.
流浪者	那个liu2lang4zhe3把所有的东西捆成一包背在背上.	The tramp carried his belongings in a pack on his back.
诗意	我欣赏他那富有shi1yi4的话语。	I appreciate his poetic utterances.
发牢骚	他们一再fa1 lao2sao5把他惹火了.	He was irritated by their perpetual complaints.
颜料	他们只用天然yan2liao4染毛织品。	They used only natural pigments to dye the wool.
只顾	她zhi3gu4埋头工作, 没意识到天已经很晚了.	She was so wrapped up in her work that she didn't realize how late it was.
铁轨	营长命令士兵们沿tie3gui3排开。	The battalion commander lined his men along the railway.
帆船	那只fan1chuan2正乘风笔直疾驶.	The yacht was scudding along before the wind.
粗俗	庸俗，cu1su2庸俗的品质或环境	The quality or condition of being vulgar.
好说	关于那件事, 我没什么hao3shuo1的。	I have nothing to say in relation to that matter.
限于	短暂的仅xian4yu2一个插曲持续的时间；短暂的	Limited to the duration of an episode; temporary.
上流	该瀑布shang4liu2有许多大麻哈鱼.	The falls upstream are full of salmon.
冒雨	我mao4yu3出去，结果被淋得湿透了。	I went out in the rain and got wet through.
拍打	雪花轻轻pai1da5着窗户。	Snowflakes were patting against the window.
典范	他仍是健康的dian3fan4。	He is still a fine specimen of health.
粗话	他们对她的cu1hua4不予理会.	They chose to pass over her rude remarks.
敌军	di2jun1发动袭击，结果反陷入我方伏击而被歼灭。	The enemy came upon us only to be entrapped and wiped out.
必不可少	这首乐曲是这个故事bi4bu4ke3shao3的组成部分。	The music is organic to the story.
哲学家	某位zhe2xue2jia1认为, 存在的事物都是合理的。	According to some philosopher, everything in existence is reasonable.
物件	黄铜制品用这种合金制的装饰品、wu4jian4或器皿	Ornaments, objects, or utensils made of this alloy.
这会儿	zhe4hui4r5我不想出去散步。	I don't feel like a walk just now.
燕麦	yan4mai4主要生长在气候凉爽的地区。	Oats mainly grow in cool climate.
信奉	破坏主义者xin4feng4或提倡毁灭（尤指现存的社会制度）的人	One who believes in or advocates destruction, especially of existing social institutions.
得救	现在只有出现奇迹她才能de2jiu4。	Nothing but a miracle can save her now.
精髓	她的书抓住了文艺复兴时期人文主义的jing1sui3.	Her book captures the quintessence of Renaissance humanism.
底层	di3ceng2很潮湿。	The underneath part felt damp.
火炉	一个厨房里的小huo3lu2就会把整个房子都熏黑。	One small fire in the kitchen will cover the whole house in soot.
生命力	支柱，支持物sheng1ming4li4赖以释放的动原	An agent through which vital powers are exercised.
纱布	裹在他伤口上的sha1bu4脏了。	The gauze patch applied to his wound is dirty.
氧化	铁很容易yang3hua4。	Iron is easily oxidized.
布景	我们需要有人自愿帮忙把bu4jing3搭起、 画好.	We need volunteers to help build and paint the set.
券	失败的队；未中的彩quan4	A losing team; a losing lottery ticket.
版权	ban3quan2在作者死後50年即行终止.	Copyright expires 50 years after the death of the author.
乌托邦	今天，托马斯·莫尔爵士作为《wu1tuo1bang1》的作者而留在人们的记忆之中。	Sir Thomas More is remembered today as the author of Utopia.
顶端	再加点油，你就可以到达ding3duan1了。	One more effort, and you will get to the top.
欢心	看到政府官员在内阁改组之前耍弄花招以讨得首相huan1xin1是很有趣的。	It's amusing to watch members jockeying for the Prime Minister's attention prior to Cabinet reshuffle.
螺丝	我用力把luo2si1往木头上拧，可是拧不进去，又掉出来了。	I've put the screw in the wood as tightly as I can, but it won't stay in, it keeps slipping out.
搁浅	船ge1qian3了--这河口的水比我们想像的要浅.	The ship has touched bottom the estuary must be shallower than we thought.
拳击手	他不只是quan2ji1shou3, 还是世界冠军呢.	He's not a mere boxer: he's world champion.
银幕	电视、广播或演出节目为舞台、yin2mu4、电视或电台制作的作品	A work produced for the stage, screen, television, or radio.
扩展	他的经济政策为工业的kuo4zhan3铺平了道路.	His economic policies paved the way for industrial expansion.
不停	他们一步bu4ting2地走了过去。	They walked past without stopping
沉没	小船chen2mo4在波涛之中。	The boat dipped into the waves.
顶峰	他已经登上事业的ding3feng1。	He has reached the pinnacle of his career.
相撞	据报道，这艘客轮与一艘油轮xiang1zhuang4。	The liner is reported to have been in collision with an oil tanker.
交织	喜悦和惊异jiao1zhi1在一起。	Joy mingled with surprises.
埋头	他mai2tou2读书.	His head was bent over a book.
残暴	粗暴的，残忍的以can2bao4为特征的；非常残酷的	Characterized by savagery; very cruel.
阵营	他加入自由主义的zhen4ying2。	He camped on the liberal side.
治病	预防胜于治疗（zhi4bing4不如防病）。	Prevention is better than cure.
暴动	警方得到了他们在策划着bao4dong4的情报。	The police had a tip that they were plotting a riot.
花招	用那样的hua1zhao1欺负一个老太太, 可真卑鄙.	That was a scurvy trick to play on an old lady.
新潮	时装xin1chao2很快就在全世界流行起来。	Fashion trends diffuse themselves rapidly around the globe.
常用	柳条chang2yong4来编筐。	Osier is used to make baskets.
机枪	我们的ji1qiang1扫倒了向前推进的一排排敌方步兵。	Our machineguns mowed down the advancing lines of enemy infantry men.
慰藉	让我们自己享受承认人类的弱点的快乐是一大wei4jie4。	It is a great relief to allow us ourselves the luxury of acknowledging our human frailties.
加冕	五十位国家元首参加了女王的jia1mian3典礼，向女王表示敬意。	Fifty heads of state attended the Queen's coronation to do her honour.
筋疲力尽	他因十分努力而jin1pi2-li4jin4.	He exhausted himself in the attempt.
筹集	在对兴建一家新饭店的计划取得一致意见之后，我们就着手chou2ji2资金。	Having agreed on the plan for building a new hotel, we began to raise funds.
席位	布置了六个xi2wei4.	Covers were laid for six.
布料	直到很晚之后，欧洲才知道棉花bu4liao4。	Cotton material was not known in Europe until much later.
获利	我们希望长期huo4li4。	We hope to make great profit in the long term.
总计	zong3ji4费用为500英镑.	The total cost comes out at 500.
舞厅	我们已经准备好拍摄（wu3ting1的连续镜头）.	We're ready to shoot (the ballroom sequence).
判处	罪犯被pan4chu3死刑。	The criminal was sentenced to capital punishment.
炸毁	港口附近的兵站被敌人zha4hui3了。	The depot near the harbor was bombed by the enemy.
现今	xian4jin1人们越来越依赖计算机协助工作.	Nowadays we rely increasingly on computers for help/to help us.
邮递员	那个you2di4yuan2被一只恶狗咬了。	The postman was bitten by a fierce dog.
险境	我一定是瞎了眼, 连我们身临xian3jing4也看不出来.	I must have been blind not to realize the danger we were in.
初次	当我chu1ci4离家时，喜鹊在树上唱歌，在中国文化中这是个好预兆。	Some magpies was singing in the tree when I left home for the first time, a good omen in Chinese culture.
无可奉告	｀部长, 你是要辞职吗?＇｀wu2ke3-feng4gao4.＇	`Will you resign, Minister?' `No comment!'
断断续续	整天duan4duan4xu4xu4地下著雨。	It rained on and off all day.
手杖	这老人没有shou3zhang4就走不了路。	The old man could not walk without a stick.
贬值	该公司的股票已经bian3zhi2.	Shares in the company have depreciated.
磁场	检流计，电流计一种仪器，用以探测、测量和测定微小电流方向，采用线圈在ci2chang3中产生的机械效果的方法	An instrument used to detect, measure, and determine the direction of small electric currents by means of mechanical effects produced by a coil in a magnetic field.
唾液	狗见到骨头就大量分泌tuo4ye4.	A dog salivates when it sees a bone.
血汗	工厂主们使用xue4han4劳动为自己挣得大量财产。	The mill owners used sweated labour to earn them fortunes.
萧条	目前生意xiao1tiao2不振。	Business is slack just now.
难为情	你当众纠正我的错误, 弄得我很nan2wei2qing2.	You made me look so small, correcting me in front of everybody.
烤火	先让我烤kao3huo3暖和一下，然后我们开始谈话。	Just give me a minute to thaw out in front of the fire, then we can talk.
案情	他们聘请了能请到的最好的律师为他们陈述an4qing2.	They employed the best lawyer they could get to plead their case.
金黄色	jin1huang2se4是很亮的黄色。	Saffron is very bright yellow.
直至	服这器官妙得很，它从你在早上起床的一刹那时就开始工作，而且zhi2zhi4你进入办公室为止，是不会停止（工作）的。	The brain is a wonderful organ; it starts working the moment you get up in the morning, and does not stop until you get into the office.
老汉	那lao3han4把他早年在父亲农场上度过的日子看作理想的岁月。	The old man idealizes his early day on his father's farm.
急速	救济品已ji2su4送到.	Relief supplies were rushed in.
下达	军官用无线电向士兵xia4da2命令.	The officer communicated his orders to the men by radio.
予以	他公然yu3yi3攻击。	He made an undisguised attack.
绘制	动画片hui4zhi4者设计、创作或制作动画片的人，如艺术家或技术人员	One, such as an artist or a technician, who designs, develops, or produces an animated cartoon.
委婉	｀去世＇是｀死＇的wei3wan3说法.	`Pass away' is a euphemism for `die'.
叛变	pan4bian4被镇压了。	The rebellion was put down.
养家	我父亲辛苦地工作为了yang3jia1。	My father works hard in order that he may support us.
挖苦	她冲他说一些刻薄的wa1ku5话.	She makes mean little digs at him.
矿物质	植物从泥土中吸收kuang4wu4zhi4和其他养料。	Plants absorb minerals and other nutrients from the soil.
改动	这些式样均可gai3dong4以适应个人不同的爱好.	These styles can be adapted to suit individual tastes.
飞机场	我们都去fei1ji1chang3为她送行了.	We all went to the airport to see her off.
浪潮	知道“第三次lang4chao2”吗？	Know anything about the third wave?
垂	她的头发几乎chui2到了腰部.	Her hair nearly reached down to her waist.
疑心	他无法消除自己的yi2xin1, 总觉得妻子不忠.	He could not divest himself of the suspicion that his wife was being unfaithful.
期末考	qi1mo4kao3卷已评完分数了.	The term papers have been graded.
断裂	地震本身的真正原因是地球表面的或地底下的岩石duan4lie4或破裂。	The actual cause of the quake itself is the rupturing or breaking of rocks at or below the earth's surface.
下棋	我不太喜欢xia4qi2。	I'm not very fond of playing chess.
怀特	Huai2te4霍尔街上流传著谣言.	Rumours are circulating in Whitehall.
新兵	他们为海军徵募了四百名xin1bing1.	They enlisted four hundred recruits for the navy.
肺炎	他得了fei4yan2。	He has an inflammation of the lungs.
烟囱	这次爆炸把那个旧yan1cong1给炸倒了.	The explosion toppled the old chimney.
邮政	英国邮局直接转帐制度称为全国you2zheng4通汇转帐制.	The British Post Office giro system is called the National Giro/Girobank.
擦掉	她用一张面巾纸ca1diao4脸上的汗水。	She wiped off the sweat from her face with a piece of facial tissue.
器械	消防队员需用呼吸qi4xie4才能进入燃烧著的房屋.	Firemen needed breathing apparatus to enter the burning house.
哈哈大笑	他ha1ha1da4xiao4以遮掩紧张的心情.	He laughed to cover (ie hide) his nervousness.
依稀	我听说有人能回忆起童年甚至婴儿时期的一些往事，但是我的过去依yi1xi1稀，我确实记不清了。	I hear of people recalling incidents from their early childhood—and even their infancy—but my dim and distant past is very dim indeed to me.
侍者	他偷偷塞给shi4zhe3一镑，以求得到好的桌位。	He slipped the waiter￡1 to get a good table.
战线	游击队在那个省开辟了一条新zhan4xian4。	The guerrillas opened up a new front in that province.
入境	ru4jing4时，我的提包受到了检查。	My bags were examined when I entered the country.
钝	用一把这么dun4的刀子切菠萝是不可能的。	It's impossible to cut a pineapple with such a dull knife.
多管闲事	你老是duo1 guan3 xian2shi4.	You're always meddling.
耐力	nai4li4忍受困难和痛苦的能力	The capacity to endure hardship or pain.
京剧	有些上了年纪的人非常喜爱Jing1ju4。	Some elder people enjoy Beijing opera immensely.
落空	这两个研究所打算合并的事现在已经luo4kong1了。	The proposed amalgamation of the two institutes has mow fallen through.
构造	搭连主墙有一斜屋顶的gou4zao4，边接在建筑物侧面作为侧厅或延伸物	A structure with a single-pitch roof that is attached to the side of a building as a wing or an extension.
文盲	在一些发展中国家, wen2mang2是个大问题.	Illiteracy is a major problem in some developing countries.
敌对	这两个di2dui4的党派之间没有共同点.	The two rival parties have no common ground between them.
空前	敌人的狂轰滥炸在这个国家造成了kong1qian2的死亡和破坏。	The enemy mad bombardment caused unprecedented death and destruction in the country.
清扫	这地板需要好好qing1sao3一下。	This floor needs a good sweep.
上好	请你把这颗纽扣缝到我的衬衫shang4hao3吗？	Would you sew this button onto my shirt?
共产主义	无产阶级专政是gong4chan3zhu3yi4的目标之一.	The dictatorship of the proletariat is one of the aims of Communism.
增大	这些发展促使家用电脑的需求量zeng1da4。	These developments have created a great demand for home computers.
架势	亨利认为他总是对的，如果有人敢于反驳他的话，他就摆出一副盛气凌人的jia4shi5。	Henry thinks he is always right and gets on his high horse if anyone dares to contradict him.
创办	雷吉参与了这个公司的chuang4ban4，公司发展了，他也获利了。	Reg had got in on the ground floor, and as the firm had progressed, so had he.
削减	xue1jian3公费开支意味著要砍掉几所医院.	The public spending cuts will mean the chop for several hospitals.
捏造	虚构，nie1zao4虚构作品或nie1zao4借口的行为	The act of inventing such a creation or pretense.
松弛	一到周末纪律往往song1chi2下来.	Discipline is often relaxed at weekends.
苏丹	su1dan1是某些穆斯林国家的最高统治者。	Sultan is sovereign ruler of certain Muslim countries.
过份	她对他们guo4fen4和气。	She lavished kindness on them.
统治者	诺曼人征服了英格兰成了tong3zhi4zhe3。	The Normans ruled England by right of conquest.
布道	牧师在bu4dao4会上宣讲慈爱的必要。	The priest preached a sermon on the need of charity.
签订	这项协议的qian1ding4将有助于缓和国际紧张局势。	The signing of this agreement will help to reduce international tension.
一连串	这个学生总是问他老师yi1lian2chuan4的问题。	The student always asks his teacher a series of questions.
溺水	他从桥上跳入水中去抢救那ni4shui3儿童.	He dived from the bridge to rescue the drowning child.
作曲	她不仅很会演奏, 而且还会zuo4qu3.	She not only plays well, but also writes music.
医务	他在yi1wu4界工作。	He is a member of the medical fraternity.
钟表	他将zhong1biao3里的发条取了出来，可现在装上不了。	He took the spring out of the clock but now he can't get it back.
发号施令	他总是对园艺工作fa1hao4-shi1ling4，其实他只是一知半解。	He's always laying down the law about gardening but he really doesn't know much about it.
撤回	若不立即签署合同我就che4hui2我提出的条件.	Unless the contract is signed immediately, I shall withdraw my offer.
一路顺风	祝你yi1lu4 shun4feng1！	A pleasant journey to you!
心怀	他们接受该计画时xin1huai2不满.	Therewas an undercurrent of resentment in their acceptance of the plan.
划船	他hua2chuan2渡过湖面。	He rowed the boat across the lake.
亲属	新娘的男qin1shu3们聚集在一起为婚礼做准备。	The bride's kinsman gathered to make preparations for the wedding.
不切实际	那是一项bu4qie4 shi2ji4的计画。	It isn't a realistic plan.
头巾	她头上带着一块黄色的tou2jin1。	She wore on her head a yellow kerchief.
粪便	动物的fen4bian4可以作为肥料使用。	Animal dung may be used as manure.
告终	法国和英国争夺北美洲的战争以英国的胜利而gao4zhong1。	The contest between France and England for North America ended in victory for England.
依照	照字面的与一词或数个词的确切或主要意义一致的；yi1zhao4或维持这一意义的	Being in accordance with, conforming to, or upholding the exact or primary meaning of a word or words.
不起眼	这建筑物的外观很bu4qi3yan3.	The exterior of the building is very unattractive.
干枯	酷热使池水gan1ku1。	The intense heat has dried up the pond.
部件	这里采用的大多数机器bu4jian4都是由一种新的轻合金制造的。	Most of the machine parts available here are made from a new kind of light alloy.
电路	这个dian4lu4里面使用了两个断路器。	There are two breakers in this circuit.
叛军	上个月数百名妇女儿童死于pan4jun1的炮火。	Hundreds of women and children fell to the rebels’ gunfire last month.
宽大	他不喜欢自己的kuan1da4的鼻孔。	He dislikes his wide nostrils.
英国人	她是Ying1guo2ren2, 但也有一些德国亲戚.	She is British but also has German connections.
输掉	尽管我们尽了全力，我们还是shu1diao4了比赛。	Despite all our efforts we still lost the game.
优良	她具有you1liang2品德。	She possesses good qualities.
凶猛	凶恶，残忍凶恶的状态或特点；xiong1meng3	The state or quality of being ferocious; fierceness.
厚度	羽毛被的hou4du4填满了压缩绝缘材料的某种物品的hou4du4，如尼龙被	The thickness of an item, such as a down comforter, that is filled with compressible insulating material.
机能	生物学生命或生物的科学，包括其结构、ji1neng2、生长、起源、进化及分布。包含植物学和动物学及所有的分支	The science of life and of living organisms, including their structure, function, growth, origin, evolution, and distribution. It includes botany and zoology and all their subdivisions.
毛皮	从动物我们得到像羊毛、丝、皮革、与mao2pi2这样的材料。	From animals we get such materials as wool, silk, leather and furs.
传染病	接触性chuan2ran3bing4一种（可）由直接或间接接触来传播的疾病；接触性chuan2ran3bing4	A disease that is or may be transmitted by direct or indirect contact; a contagious disease.
虽说	他sui1shuo1又愚蠢又吝啬，但他有幽默的长处。	He may be stupid and mean, but his one saving grace is his humour.
厂商	那家制鞋chang3shang1有几家代销店。	The shoe manufacturer had several outlets.
飞速	那车在高速公路上fei1su4行驶。	The car is whizzing along the motorway.
奖章	jiang3zhang1和奖牌上的人像系低浮雕。	In medals and medallions the figures are in low relief.
发病	聚会进行到一半，我太太fa1bing4了，我们只好赶紧离开。	Halfway through the party my wife become ill and we have to leave in short order.
山坡	农场位于shan1po1上。	The farm sits on the side of the hill.
探险家	早期的tan4xian3jia1可能在哥伦布之前已发现美洲.	Earlier explorers probably anticipated Columbus's discovery of America.
拼凑	这个学生用半小时草草pin1cou4了一篇文章.	The student cobbled together an essay in half an hour.
书名	这本新shu1ming2叫《爱情故事》。	The new book is entitled Love Story.
相称	与你的财力xiang1chen4的价格	Prices to fit your pocketbook.
栓	shuan1皮经常用作绝缘材料.	Cork is often used for insulation.
庭院	我坐在ting2yuan4里享受明媚的阳光。	I was sitting in the garden enjoying the sunshine.
预知	占星家声称能yu4zhi1祸福.	Astrologers claim to be able to divine what the stars hold in store for us.
一道	突然窗帘拉了开来，yi1dao4强光照了进来。	The curtain was suddenly drawn and a bright light shone in.
若无其事	她的考试成绩令人失望，但却装出ruo4 wu2 qi2 shi4的样子。	Her exam result was disappointing but she tried to put a brave face on it.
深信	我shen1xin4每个人都是靠出卖什么东西生活的。	I am convinced(that) everyone lives by selling something.
一代	民间音乐是yi1dai4yi1dai4地流传下来的。	Folk music has been passed down from one generation to another.
教区	那个好心的大教主负责我们这个jiao4qu1。	That kind archbishop is responsible for our church district.
斧头	那人用fu3tou5把一块木头劈成两半。	The man cleft a block of wood in two with an axe.
宽度	花园的kuan1du4为六米。	The garden is six meters in width.
乡间	他们用积蓄的钱合资在xiang1jian1买了一所房子.	They pooled their savings and bought a house in the country.
芳香	新犁过的土地散发着fang1xiang1。	The newly ploughed fields smelt sweet.
珠子	那顶帽子上饰有彩色zhu1zi5。	The hat was decorated with colored beads.
伏击	敌军发动袭击，结果反陷入我方fu2ji1而被歼灭。	The enemy came upon us only to be entrapped and wiped out.
邮寄	邮资you2ji4的物品所需的费用	The charge for mailing an item.
扣押	持枪歹徒把两个孩子kou4ya1在这座建筑物里当作人质.	The gunman is holding two children hostage in the building.
带头	他就是那个dai4tou2的学生。	He is the student who begins the dance.
法制	需要加强fa3zhi4的威力.	The law needs toughening (up).
逼近	危险正bi1jin4，我们必须保持警惕。	While danger threatens we must all be on guard.
雪白	羊毛是xue3bai2的。	The sheep's fleece was white as snow.
冲破	汹涌而来的示威者chong1po4了围栏。	A surge of demonstrators broke through the fence.
肿胀	轻微的zhong3zhang4或肿块	A slight swelling or lump.
转交	写给他的信件由律师zhuan3jiao1.	Write to him care of his solicitor.
断电	你（如果）不付款，他们就要duan4dian4。	Fail to pay and they'll cut off the electricity.
反叛	fan3pan4者阴谋想颠覆政府。	The conspirators want to overthrow the government.
元气	这个国家连年战争yuan2qi4尽失後, 已开始慢慢恢复正常状态.	The country, prostrate after years of war, began slowly to recover.
北面	他的家乡在北回归线的bei3mian4。	His hometown is located in the north to the tropic of cancer.
照射	在光记录技术中，指光道上两个凹槽之间的区域。在制作母盘时记录激光束不zhao4she4这些区域。参阅pit。	In optical recording, refers to the areas of the data tracks which are between the pits. These are typically the areas not touched by the recording laser beam during mastering.
库存	该书有ku4cun2[已脱销].	The book is in/out of stock.
集市	下一次ji2shi4是15号.	The next market is on the 15th.
同等	无表决权的股票与有投票地位tong2deng3。	The non- voting share rank equally with the voting share.
猜疑	他cai1yi2管道里什麽地方漏了.	He suspected that a leak was present somewhere along the pipe.
法令	每个人都必须遵守这条政府fa3ling4。	Everyone should obey the government ordinance.
花卉	窗帘上绘有精美的hua1hui4图案。	The curtains had an elaborate pattern of flowers.
解放军	5月27日，我们将工厂完整无损地移交给jie3fang4jun1。	On May27 we handed over the plant to the Liberation Army undamaged.
原油	yuan2you2已经取代咖啡成为我们的主要出口货物。	Oil has supplanted coffee as our main export.
击打	那一ji1da3得他失去了知觉.	The blow caused him to lose consciousness.
各式各样	他来时携妻子、六个孩子、四条狗以及ge4shi4-ge4yang4的累赘什物。	He come with his wife, six children, four dog and various other impedimenta.
合金	汞齐，汞he2jin1各种汞和其它金属，如锡或银的he2jin1	Any of various alloys of mercury with other metals, as with tin or silver.
顶部	後面的门是在ding3bu4铰接上的, 以便可以向上开.	The rear door hinges/is hinged at the top so that it opens upwards.
晚礼服	她穿着一件黑色丝质wan3li3fu2。	She wore a black silk evening gown.
行贿	事情的真相是：这样一种工作不仅存在，而且极易招致xing2hui4受贿事件。	It emerged not only that such a job existed, but that it was particularly subject to bribery.
钢笔	这是谁的gang1bi3？	Whose pen is this?
同类	只应在tong2lei4事物中作比较.	You should only compare like with like.
云彩	小云块，碎云小yun2cai5或与之相象的某物	A small cloud or something resembling one.
萨达姆	猜测Sa4da2mu3心里如何想法是毫无意义的。不论他是做给伊斯兰激进分子看，还是趁最后一个机会找布什麻烦，他与美国和全世界对抗，不久就成为克林顿先生的问题。	It's pointless to try to read Saddam Hussein's mind. Whether he is playing to Islamic radicals or simply taking a final poke at George Bush, his confrontation with America and the world will soon be one more problem for Mr.Clinton.
装有	信封内zhuang1you3几份附件。	There are several enclosures in the envelope.
凉爽	在liang2shuang3的天气里轻松地散步令人心旷神怡。	A brisk walk in cool weather is invigorating.
总数	把这些数字加起来，告诉我zong3shu4是多少。	Add this numbers together and give me the total.
羁绊	他早早退休, 摆脱了工作的ji1ban4而加入了当地的几个俱乐部.	Retiring early from his job freed him to join several local clubs.
变更	改变了的已经被更改或bian4geng1了的	Having been modified or altered.
分发	示威者向行人fen1fa1传单.	The demonstrators distributed leaflets to passers-by.
兴起	一个建设的新高潮正在xing1qi3。	A new upsurge in construction is in the making.
摆动	船帆随风bai3dong4.	The sails were flapping gently in the wind.
危急	时刻尤指关键时刻，wei1ji2关头	A point in time, especially a critical point.
禁区	戈登接近jin4qu1了。	Gordon's near the penalty area.
一并	商店连同其商誉yi1bing4出售.	The goodwill is being sold together with the shop.
药膏	这是治疗烧伤和烫伤的yao4gao1。	This is an ointment for burns and scalds.
假牙	jia3ya2师一种牙科技术师，其专长在于制造和安装jia3ya2，他可以直接为公众服务，而不必通过有执照的牙科医生	A dental technician specializing in making and fitting dentures as a direct service to the public rather than through a licensed dentist.
迎风	五星红旗ying2feng1飘扬。	The five-star red flag is fluttering in the wind.
手帕	打喷嚏时, 要用shou3pa4遮住.	Use a handkerchief when you sneeze.
引入	把水yin3ru4一系列灌溉渠中.	Water is channelled through a series of irrigation canals.
湿度	由于shi1du4高，工作很困难。	It's difficult to work because of the humidity.
麻醉剂	在ma2zui4ji4的作用下我感到舒服些。	I felt comfortable on narcotic effect.
无人	厕所现在wu2ren2使用.	The lavatory is vacant.
选定	他喜欢深入研读他所xuan3ding4的任何一门学科。	He likes to read deeply in any subject that he chooses to study.
岗	公共汽车艰难地爬上陡峭的山gang3.	The bus toiled up the steep hill.
鸟类	他刚发表了英国niao3lei4生活观察报告.	He's just published his observations on British bird life.
图表	该tu2biao3本身即很清楚.	The diagram is self-explanatory.
多利	倘若我们进行干预，那可能弊Duo1li4少。	If we interfere, it may do more harm than good.
荒地	那片田地又变成了huang1di4。	The fields have reverted to moorland.
刺绣	她很会ci4xiu4.	She embroiders very well.
讲课	我努力想听清他jiang3ke4讲的每一字每一句。	I tried hard not to lose a word of his lecture.
链条	lian4tiao2中薄弱的一环	A weak link in a chain.
拖拉机	他是否把这台tuo1la1ji1漆成了红色？	Do he paint this tractor red?
颗粒	谷粒禾谷类作物的一个ke1li4	A single grain of a cereal plant.
唤起	这件事huan4qi3了他对过去苦难经历的回忆。	The incident woke memories of his past sufferings.
字面	成语通常不能照zi4mian4译成另一种语言。	Idioms usually cannot be translated literally in another language.
百般	劫持者对人质bai3ban1侮辱.	The highjackers inflicted all kinds of indignities on their captives.
牛顿	根据niu2dun4第一定律，如果不对物体施加力的话，静止物体会一直保持静止。	According to Newton's first law, a body at rest will remain at rest until a force is applied to it.
贪吃	他真是tan1chi1的大肚汉.	He's a real greedy guts.
高呼	群众gao1hu1赞成.	The crowd roared its approval.
重申	老师chong2shen1了那条规则。	The teacher reiterates that rule.
杂物	工人们清理（za2wu4）後就走了.	The workmen cleaned up (the mess) before they left.
原子	大多数人熟悉一切物质都是由yuan2zi3组成的这一概念。	Most people are familiar with the idea that all matter consist of atoms.
纱	薄衫一种柔软而轻薄的织物、sha1或衣服	Any of various soft, light fabrics, yarns, or garments.
华侨	Hua2qiao2们非常高兴地踏上祖国的土地。	The overseas are very glad to set foot on their homeland.
半数	我只需要ban4shu4.	I only need half.
大纲	其中之一就是允许地方教委在国家教学da4gang1的指导下选择合适自身的教材。	One of the reforms allows the local education department to choose their own textbooks based upon the national teaching guideline.
懊悔	我对自己说过的话很ao4hui3""。""不必在意，反正我不会记在心上的。""	I'm sorry for what I said."" ""Forget it, I can't remember anyway.""
转折点	她的印度之行成了她一生的zhuan3zhe2dian3。	Her visit to India proved to be a watershed in her life.
部下	他号召bu4xia4战斗。	He summoned his soldiers to fight.
便士	土豆每磅20bian4shi4.	Potatoes are 20 pence a pound.
货色	即使要求很高的市场对不同种类的商品，也需要有各种档次的huo4se4和价格。	Even highly demanding markets require a wide range of quality and price levels for any group of products.
十字路口	我想在shi2zi4 lu4kou3下车可不准。	I wanted off at the cross road, but was refused.
温顺	他过去毫不留情地欺侮他的秘书，但是如被逼太甚，最wen1shun4者也会反抗的，结果有一天她不辞而别了。	He used to bully his secretary without mercy, but even a worm will turn and one day she walked out and left her job without even saying goodbye.
禁令	抗议者藐视官方的示威jin4ling4.	The protesters showed their defiance of the official ban on demonstrations.
日程表	旅游团成员从导游那里拿到详细的ri4cheng2biao3。	The member of the group is given a detailed tour itinerary by the courier.
再现	这幅画的照片绝妙地zai4xian4了原作的色彩。	The photograph of the painting reproduces the colors of the original extremely well.
纸张	贴花转印法把印在（尤指）准备好的zhi3zhang1上的图画或图案转印到玻璃或金属等材料上的程序	The process of transferring pictures or designs printed on specially prepared paper to materials such as glass or metal.
发酵	酒石形成于酒的fa1jiao4桶的内侧。	Tartar forms on the inside of a cask in which wine is fermented.
阻力	政府的私有化计画遇到了很大的zu3li4.	The government is running up against considerable opposition to its privatization plans.
高山	在所有gao1shan1当中，玉山为最高。	Of all the high mountains, Mt. Jade is the highest.
定居	我们旅行多年後, 决定在此ding4ju1.	After years of travel, we decided to settle here.
肿块	外科医生切除了她乳房的zhong3kuai4.	The surgeon excised the lump from her breast.
呼喊	受惊的孩子们hu1han3著找妈妈。	Frightened children were calling for their mothers.
领子	如果ling3zi5不牢稳，你最好用别针把它别住。	If the collar won't stay in place, you'd better pin it back.
压倒	他背上的重负似乎要把他ya1dao3在地。	The burden on his back seemed to be crushing him to the earth.
纸牌	桥牌、 扑克和惠斯特都是zhi3pai2游戏.	Bridge, poker and whist are card-games.
沾满	我用zhan1man3油污的碎布擦我的自行车.	I use an oily rag to clean my bike with.
求职者	她丰富的经验使她比其他qiu2zhi2zhe3具有有利条件。	Her rich experience gave her an advantage over other applicants for the job.
葬	他和他妻子zang4在一起.	He was buried with his wife.
超载	就模拟输入而言，使模数转换器不能区别其变化的超范围的绝对电压值。chao1zai4值对于正输入和负输入可能不同。	For analog inputs, any absolute voltage value above which the analog-to- digital converter cannot distinguish a change. The overload value can be different for plus and minus inputs.
磨损	铸造在硬币上的文字已经mo2sun3.	The inscription on the coin had worn away.
益处	她的劝告大有yi4chu5.	Her advice was a great help.
长颈鹿	chang2jing3lu4的脖子很长.	Giraffes have long necks.
连夜	那记者虽然有点累，但他那天晚上却lian2ye4写文章。	The journalist chucked out ink throughout that night although he was a bit tired.
财物	侵略军在那里横行霸道，杀人放火，抢劫cai2wu4。	The invading troops rampaged about in the area, killing, burning and looting.
磁性	磁化使一个物体具有暂时或永久性ci2xing4的过程，例如把一个物体放入磁物中	The process of making a substance temporarily or permanently magnetic, as by insertion in a magnetic field.
四季	在所有si4ji4当中，夏天最热。	Of all the four seasons, summer is the hottest.
回升	一旦价格hui2sheng1，询盘将恢复活跃。	As soon as the price picks up, enquiries will revive.
投放	她所有的钱都tou2fang4到股票里去了。	She's got all her money in stocks and shares.
篱笆	他们用li2ba5把院子围起来了。	They surrounded the yard with a palisade.
暗淡	该项预测展望经济前景an4dan4，因而股票价格大跌。	Share price plunge as a result of the gloomy economic forecast.
品格	她的高尚pin3ge2令人钦佩.	Her nobility of character made her much admired.
刷子	如果刷油漆用滚筒而不用shua1zi5，那么刷出的面积要大得多。	The paint will go much further if you roll it on instead of using a brush.
着眼	她透过雾眯zhuo2yan3看，想找出正确的路。	She peers through the mist, trying to find the right path.
农庄	每一处nong2zhuang1都有大批购买来的和配给的仆人从事开垦荒地。	For its rough cultivation each estate had a multitude of hand—of purchased and assigned servants.
水源	shui3yuan2污染已经达到危及居民健康的程度。	Pollution of the water supply reached a level pernicious to the health of the population.
化工	石油hua4gong1产品现在已占所有化学制品的四分之一，十年后预计这个数目还要加倍。	Petrochemicals today account for one fourth of all the chemicals made, in ten years this amount is expected to double.
招生	乔治先生猛烈抨击大学的zhao1sheng1制度。	Mr.George lashed out at the university enrolling system.
洗刷	玛丽不但清扫房间而且也xi3shua1窗子。	Mary not only cleaned the room but (also) washed the window.
林子	一声吼叫，呼地从lin2zi5里冲出一只老虎来。	Following the roar, out rushed a tiger among the bushes.
研制	那两个公司已合作yan2zhi4新型赛车.	The two companies have teamed up to develop a new racing car.
运费	他们是否按体积计算yun4fei4？	Do they charge carriage by bulk?
官僚	很难弄清楚他们那套guan1liao2体制全部细微的层次分别。	It was hard to understand all the minute gradations of their bureaucracy.
不曾	是为了它那bu4ceng2要求，bu4ceng2知道，bu4ceng2记得的小小的需要。	It is for small needs it never asks, or knows or remembers.
纯属	政府声称对失业表示关注chun2shu3做做姿态。	The government's claim to be concerned about unemployment is sheer hypocrisy.
泉水	这家饭店围绕一庭院而建，辅以quan2shui3和棕榈树。	The hotel is built round a courtyard, with fountain and palm tree.
天色	tian1se4灰蒙蒙的。	The sky was over cast.
打印机	你可以使用联机da3yin4ji1把数据打印出来。	You may use an online printer to print out the data.
看台	南kan4tai2上响起一片欢呼声.	A cheer rose from the south stand(s).
安放	恐怖分子在邮局an1fang4了一枚炸弹。	The terrorists planted a bomb in the post office.
凝望	他抬起头，ning2wang4着天空。	He rose his head and stared at the firmament.
足球队	我们的zu2qiu2dui4取得了压倒性的胜利。	Our football team has won an overwhelming victory.
叛乱	pan4luan4者被迫投降.	The rebels were forced to give in.
竖起	他惊讶地shu4qi3了眉毛。	His brows went up in surprise.
止痛	他在手上涂了些药膏来zhi3tong4。	He smeared some balm on his hand to soothe the pain.
傀儡	我们是听任命运摆布的kui3lei3吗？	Are we the puppets of fate?
流入	江河大多liu2ru4海洋.	Most rivers flow into the sea.
追随者	他是zhui1sui2zhe3，不是领导者。	He's a follower, not a leader.
通红	他因缺少睡眠而两眼tong1hong2.	His eyes were bloodshot from lack of sleep.
落日	luo4ri4使景色更美。	The setting sun glorified the scene.
发芽	春天树木fa1ya2了.	Buds appear on the trees in spring.
市政	附近的居民们一致赞成shi4zheng4委员会关于关闭这座小印染厂的决定。	The residents in the neighbourhood all applauded the council's decision to close the small dye factory.
狂风	昨天的这个时候正刮着kuang2feng1。	It was blowing gales of hurricane this time yesterday.
首府	麦迪逊美国威斯康星州shou3fu3，位于该州的中南部，密尔沃基的西边。它于1836年被选定作为该州的shou3fu3并在同年移民于此。威斯康星大学（建于1848年）的主要部分就在这里。人口191，262	The capital of Wisconsin, in the south-central part of the state west of Milwaukee. It was chosen as territorial capital in1836 and settled the same year. The main branch of the University of Wisconsin(founded1848) is here. Population, 191,262.
办事处	他们正在考虑把ban4shi4chu4搬出伦敦。	They are pondering moving their offices outside London.
发笑	她样子寒酸, 客人不禁暗自fa1xiao4.	Her shabby appearance drew sniggers from the guests.
开走	你未得许可就把汽车kai1zou3是不应该的.	You were wrong to take the car without permission.
半价	我用这张通行证坐火车ban4jia4.	This pass enables me to travel half-price on trains.
闲暇	屡次侵占我的xian2xia2时间, 我很反感.	I resent these incursions into/upon my leisure time.
开往	那船是kai1wang3外地的.	The ship is outward bound.
健壮	我的叔叔虽然老了，但他看上去还是很jian4zhuang4。	Although my uncle is old, he looks very strong and healthy.
彗星	一谈到别的事情时，他们的记性并不是很好，但他们却记得hui4xing1。	Their memory wasn't very good when it came to recalling other things, but they remembered the comet.
鱼雷	这艘船被敌人的yu2lei2击沉了。	The ship was sunk by an enemy torpedo.
切碎	我当时正把机密文件qie1sui4。	I was shredding top-secret documents at that time.
旗子	qi2zi5在风中飘扬。	Flags are fluttering in the breeze.
卵子	异卵黄的luan3zi3中卵黄分布不均匀的	Having the yolk unevenly distributed throughout the egg.
高地	噍，那亭子高gao1di4立在空中呢。	Look, the pavilion is high in the sky.
有罪	她被判you3zui4, 因而失去了工作.	She was found guilty, and lost her job in consequence (of it).
膀胱	pang2guang1能储存尿液。	The bladder collects urine.
无可	他的诚实是wu2ke3争议的。	His honesty is beyond dispute.
空袭	kong1xi2几乎把这座城镇夷为平地。	The bombing raid practically leveled the town.
输出	你们有没有shu1chu1功率是一百五十（150）马力的？	Have you got the one which has an output of150 horsepower?
判定	农业生物学；土壤生物学关于植物养分和与土壤条件相关的生长的研究，尤其是对pan4ding4如何增加农作物产量方法的研究	The study of plant nutrition and growth as related to soil condition, especially to determine ways to increase crop yield.
啪	爆竹pa1pa1地响。	The firecrackers popped.
围栏	她在那个wei2lan2里养了一匹马。	She keeps a horse in that enclosure.
觉察	她jue2cha2到她的机会。	She awoke to her opportunity.
地形	他了解这里的di4xing2。	He knows the lay of the land here.
掉落	她捡起diao4luo4的苹果, 用衣服下摆兜著.	She gathered the fallen apples and carried them in her lap.
拉丁语	西班牙语与La1ding1yu3近似。	Spanish is akin to Latin.
颇为	除了他那po1wei2古怪的口音以外, 我没注意到别的.	I didn't notice anything beyond his rather strange accent.
远见	本届政府并没有显示出应有的yuan3jian4，应有的常识，不能看出这些人民正以伟大的战争来换取自由。换取更好的生活水平，过上好日子。	I don't think this Administration has shown the foresight, has shown the knowledge, has been identified with the great fight which these people are waging to be free, to get a better standard of living, to live better.
失利	他在这笔交易中的shi1li4完全是由于他自己的粗心大意。	His failure in this transaction was due to nothing else than his own carelessness.
诸如	矿渣zhu1ru2砂砾或矿渣等物质，可从中提取金属	Material, such as gravel or slag, from which metal is extracted in mining.
煽动	他shan1dong4其他的男孩子调皮捣蛋。	He stirred the other boys to mischief.
关节炎	她患guan1jie2yan2十分痛苦.	She was plagued with arthritis.
船只	调遣为了战略目的而对军队、chuan2zhi5或飞机部署的变化	A change in the location of troops, ships, or aircraft for tactical or strategic purposes.
附带	fu4dai4说一下，约翰下星期要回家。	Incidentally, John's coming home next week.
剪掉	有两个镜头被审查员jian3diao4了.	Two scenes were cut by the censor.
成群	cheng2qun2的歹徒犯法後栖身於树林中.	Bands of outlaws lived in the forest.
用具	这个商店有许多家用yong4ju4。	There are many household appliances in this shop.
大理石	da4li3shi2拱门是著名的伦敦标志.	Marble Arch is a famous London landmark.
车间	在他到达che1jian1之前，机器已经开动了。	Before he gets to the workshop, the machine has been put in motion.
与世隔绝	yu3shi4-ge2jue2生活的不受外界干扰的区域	The hermetic confines of an isolated life.
烈士	父亲是lie4shi4的那个女孩学习非常刻苦。	That girl whose father is martyr studies very hard.
轻薄	铝是一种qing1bo2并呈银色的金属。	Aluminum is a kind of light silvery metal.
装甲	我们的步兵和zhuang1jia3兵均比敌军的少.	We have less infantry and armour than the enemy.
失掉	我shi1diao4这份工作也没有关系，我随时都能再找到工作。	It's no skin off my nose if I lose this job, I can always get another one.
存心	他cun2xin1说谎。	He told us a deliberate lie.
相通	两极是xiang1tong1的嘛——当牙鳕把自己的尾巴放进口里时说。	Extremes meet, as the whiting said with its tail in its mouth.
中世纪	这个画廊是zhong1shi4ji4艺术的宝库。	The gallery is a treasure trove of medieval art.
税务	鉴于shui4wu4原因，我们得组成公司。	We had to incorporate for a company for tax reasons.
牡蛎	那个mu3li4把壳合拢起来。	That oyster closed up its valves.
改过	gai3guo4不嫌迟。	It's never too late to mend.
听懂	要仔细听才能ting1dong3老师讲的课。	Listen carefully so as to follow the teacher.
强有力	我承认他身上有种qiang2you3li4的优点。	I grant a sledge-hammering sort of merit in him.(Dickens)
随和	我有个sui2he5的汽车修理工, 他把我的车保养得很好.	I've got a tame mechanic who keeps my car in order.
开设	今年香港将为教师kai1she4一家图书馆以提供防止青少年自杀的教学资料。	A library of teaching materials for preventing teenage suicides will open for educators in Hong Kong this year.
粉刷	fen3shua1房间就要把钢琴搬出去。	Painting the room involved moving out the piano.
欣喜若狂	当那位英俊的电影明星吻她的时候，她xin1xi3 ruo4 kuang2。	She was thrilled when the handsome filmstar kissed her.
跳水	他站在边上等待tiao4shui3时浑身发抖.	He stood shivering on the brink, waiting to dive in.
贫富	爱情不分pin2-fu4。	Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
聘请	他们pin4qing3他照料婴儿.	They employed him to look after the baby.
海面	今天hai3mian4风浪很大.	The sea is quite lively today.
毛毯	对mao2tan3、帐篷和医疗品的要求源源不断传到各级救灾组织办公室。	Requests for blankets, tents and medical supplies are flowing into the offices of the relief organizations.
戏院	瞧都什麽时候了! 十分钟前我们就该到xi4yuan4了.	Look at the time! We should have been at the theatre ten minutes ago.
工作量	酬金将与gong1zuo4liang4成比例.	Payment will be proportional to the amount of work done.
裁定	法庭cai2ding4那个人犯了侵犯人身罪。	The court determined that the man was guilty of assault.
汉字	那个小男孩第一次会将Han4zi4慢慢地读出来。	That boy can spell out the Chinese for the fast time.
金矿	jin1kuang4区蕴藏大量黄金或jin1kuang4的地区	An area containing abundant deposits of gold or gold ore.
抓获	越狱的逃犯已经再次被警方zhua1huo4。	The escaped convict has been caught by the police again.
破旧	那椅子太po4jiu4了，无法修理：架子好几个地方坏了。	That chair is too far gone to repair: the frame is broken in several places.
嬉戏	小羊羔在田野里跳跃xi1xi4。	The lambs were capering about in the fields.
怒吼	公牛nu4hou3起来.	The bull bellowed angrily.
插嘴	我们谈话时她老是cha1zui3.	She kept cutting in on/cutting into our conversation.
下定决心	他xia4ding4 jue2xin1争取成功。	He was utterly ruthless in his determination to succeed.
扑克牌	我宁愿约翰打网球而不玩pu1ke4pai2。	I prefer John's playing tennis to his playing cards.
遗物	这些早期yi2wu4被认为具有神奇的力量.	The relics are credited with miraculous powers.
别针	昨天我给丈夫买了一支领带bie2zhen1。	I bought a tie pin for my husband yesterday.
小册子	这本xiao3ce4zi5做得很精致。	This booklet is delicately made.
骚乱	不断增加的失业引起了社会sao1luan4。	The increasing unemployment caused social unrest.
闹事	街上有人nao4shi4.	There's rioting in the streets.
存货	如您所知，由于本公司cun2huo4已不多，所以对此项货物的需求极为迫切。	As you know, we have been in urgent need of these items as we have only a few in stock.
受审	一个青年因偷窃罪而在刑事庭shou4shen3。	A youth was tried in the criminal court for stealing.
失火	窃贼把shi1huo3的仓库里的货物都偷走了.	Thieves snaffled all the goods from the burnt warehouse.
前头	伟大的画家总是走在时代的qian2tou5。	A great painter is usually ahead of his time.
弓	拱形的具有gong1的形式的；弯曲的	Having the form of a bow; curved.
山峰	山shan1feng1或丘陵，尤其用在山名的正式名字中	A mountain or hill. Used especially as part of a proper name.
专职	专业人员的助手受过训练辅助专门人员的非zhuan1zhi2人员	A trained worker who is not a member of a given profession but assists a professional.
硬是	那项新政策尽管受到强烈抨击却ying4shi4采用了.	The new policy was adopted in the teeth of fierce criticism.
上等	汉堡包连锁店声明他们只用shang4deng3牛肉。	The hamburger chain say it only use premium quality beef.
捕获	俘获者bu3huo4他人作为俘虏的人	One that takes another as a captive.
作曲家	他超过了同时期的所有其他zuo4qu3jia1。	He excels all other composers of his period.
物理学家	老教授主持了一次理论wu4li3xue2jia1的研讨会。	The old professor had presided over a seminar for theoretical physicists.
图形	tu2xing2记录便显示了在短的间隙内先后到达的三种波。	The graphic record shows three waves arriving one after the other at short intervals.
阴沉	yin1chen2的天气让我们都感到压抑。	We were all depressed by the dismal weather.
指明	把zhi3ming2用于城镇建设的钱冻结起来的地方官	A governor who impounded monies designated for the use of cities and towns.
绝大部分	jue2da4bu4fen5的家长关心孩子。	Parents for the most part are concerned for their children.
函数	像，像点han2shu4中与某一集合中特定变量相对应的变量	A set of values of a function corresponding to a particular subset of a domain.
试穿	我能shi4chuan1一下吗？	May I try it on?
顽皮	他像猴子那麽wan2pi2!	He's as mischievous as a monkey!
纳税	na4shui4诚实不吃亏.	It pays to be honest with the taxman.
端庄	他的举止一向十分duan1zhuang1体面。	He always acted with great dignity.
提心吊胆	他总ti2xin1-diao4dan3的，担心被人发现。	The fear of being discovered was his constant companion.
瓶装	夏天收获的大量水果可冷藏或装ping2zhuang1罐加以保存。	In the summer, large crops of fruit may be preserved by freezing or bottling.
坍塌	隧道顶tan1ta1（压住工人）.	The roof of the tunnel caved in (on the workmen).
红军	长征中，我们的Hong2jun1战士成功地涉过了沼泽地。	In the long March, our Red Army soldiers succeeded in wading through the marshland.
语句	他注视著那些yu3ju4, 茫然不解.	He stared at the words in complete puzzlement.
危及	只要红灯一亮，就表示有wei1ji2职工的险情。	Only if the red light comes on is there any danger to employee.
碟子	脏die2zi5胡乱地堆放着。	Soiled dishes were piled at random.
洗涤	这件衣服由于xi3di2而慢慢褪色了。	The color of the dress faded away gradually on washing.
挤压	我的靴子ji3ya1了我脚趾上的水泡。	My boot is pressing against a blister on my toe.
怂恿	他受妻子song3yong3进行这些非法活动.	He was abetted in these illegal activities by his wife.
混凝土	在hun4ning2tu3凝固以前, 一定要把柱子竖直了.	Make sure the post is true before the concrete sets.
录音机	我的助手将操纵lu4yin1ji1.	My assistant will operate the tape-recorder.
技艺	他由於一件表现出精湛ji4yi4的作品而受到赞扬.	He was complimented on a very professional piece of work.
气流	在对流中热qi4liu2向上运动.	In convection, hot currents flow upwards.
劣质	要鼓励消费者对lie4zhi4商品投诉.	Consumers are encouraged to complain about faulty goods.
科研	他为自己在ke1yan2方面所取得的巨大成就而自豪。	He is proud of his great success in scientific researches.
大批	新的建筑物如雨后春笋般da4pi1出现。	New buildings sprang up like bamboo shoots after a spring rain.
分割	一组某物被fen1ge1后其部分、区域或群组之一	One of the parts, sections, or groups into which something is divided.
玻璃杯	你这个笨家伙!这是你今天打坏的第二个bo1li5bei1。	You clumsy oaf ---that's the second glass you've broken today.
脚踏车	我已经决定买一部jiao3ta4che1，不论贵不贵。	I have decided to buy a bicycle, whether it is expensive or not.
调子	多丽丝在厨房里向外叫道：""换个调儿，行不行？你可意识到，你修窗子时一直在那儿反复地哼同一个diao4zi5？""	Change the record, will you? "" shouted Doris from the kitchen. ""Do you realize you've been whistling the same tune over and over, all the time you've been fixing that window? ""
卫兵	wei4bing1们奉令不得离开岗位.	The guards were ordered not to leave their posts.
压制	该政策旨在防止一些人ya1zhi4另一些人.	The policy is designed to prevent the predominance of one group over another.
动词	不及物的既不主动也不被动的；不及物的。用于指dong4ci2	Neither active nor passive; intransitive. Used of verbs.
抛锚	我们的汽车在山顶陡坡处pao1mao2了.	Our car stalled on the brow of a steep hill.
油田	这些you2tian2产的油以美元定价.	Oil from these fields is priced in dollars.
副手	我现在辞去主席职位，交由我的fu4shou3接替。	I am resigning as chairman and handing over to my deputy.
窃取	这是个描写间谍的故事。故事中的几个间谍试图qie4qu3原子弹的秘密。	It was a cloak and dagger story about some spies who tried to steal atomic secrets.
正巧	他来时，我zheng4qiao3忙着写信。	It happened/chanced that I was busy writing a letter when he came.
生殖	生命活的有机物区别于死的有机物和无机物的特性和性质，主要表现在新陈代谢、生长发育、sheng1zhi2、对刺激的反应、对环境的适应等有机体本身所固有的机能中	The property or quality that distinguishes living organisms from dead organisms and inanimate matter, manifested in functions such as metabolism, growth, reproduction, and response to stimuli or adaptation to the environment originating from within the organism.
面色	她mian4se4苍白.	She has a pale complexion.
仪表	就我而论,注重yi2biao3使我自信。	For my own part, being nice about appearance keeps me confident.
密西西比	马克曾在Mi4xi1xi1bi3河上当过领航员。	Mark used to be a pilot on the Mississippi River.
用作	年代从某一具体日期算起的一段时间，也yong4zuo4其年代系统的根据	A period of time as reckoned from a specific date serving as the basis of its chronological system.
受惊	shou4jing1的牛群向牧场涌去.	The cattle stampeded towards the farm.
限定	俱乐部的成员xian4ding4在三十岁以下。	Membership in this club is restricted to man under 30.
造反	人民起来zao4fan3了.	The people broke out/rose in revolt.
格格不入	他们的观点同我们看问题的方法ge2ge2 bu4 ru4。	Their ideas are quite alien to our ways of thinking.
窝囊	别这麽wo1nang5，没什麽可怕的嘛。	Don't be so soft there's nothing to be afraid of.
不一定	轻型飞机飞行时起落架bu4yi1ding4缩回.	The undercarriage on light aircraft does not always retract in flight.
专制	zhuan1zhi4如同或被zhuan1zhi4者统治；绝对权力或权威	Rule by or as if by a despot; absolute power or authority.
木材	这块潮湿的mu4cai2有些翘棱了.	The damp wood began to warp.
太阳系	火星是tai4yang2xi4的第四颗行星。	Mars is the fourth planet in order from the sun.
笛子	这名士兵善于吹di2zi5。	The soldier was good at playing fife.
污垢	他擦去地板上的wu1gou4。	He scoured off the dirt from the floor.
烹调	你喜欢不喜欢peng1tiao2?	Do you go for cooking?
法西斯	fa3xi1si1专政的垮台引起左翼运动的高涨.	The fall of the fascist dictatorship was followed by a left-wing backlash.
大为	她的第一本书在文学界da4wei2轰动.	She has made quite a splash in literary circles with her first book.
张望	他四处zhang1wang4，要确定周围没人。	He looked around to confirm that he was alone.
堆满	老师的办公室里dui1man3了大批不同的论文。	There is a heterogeneous mass of papers in the teacher's office.
楼房	整个城市到处都在兴建新lou2fang2。	New buildings are sprouting up all over the city.
茁壮	这些玉米秧正zhuo2zhuang4生长。	These corn plants are very vigorous.
重担	送小孩上学的zhong4dan4又推给了我！	I got saddled with taking the children to school again!
填满	木屑床垫tian2man3草杆或木屑的一床薄垫子	A thin mattress filled with straw or sawdust.
暗自	她看到自己办公桌上又是一堆要处理的东西就an4zi4叫苦.	She groaned inwardly as she saw the fresh pile of work on her desk.
考卷	kao3juan4答完後请上交（给老师）.	Please give your examination papers in (to the teacher) when you've finished.
石块	向警察投掷的东西有shi2kuai4和瓶子.	Missiles thrown at the police included stones and bottles.
不容	这件要事bu4rong2耽搁，我们必须现在谈谈。	This important matter brooks no delay. We must talk about it now.
健美	只有少吃多锻炼才能jian4mei3.	You'll never be in shape until you eat less and take more exercise.
响声	最小的xiang3sheng1也会吓着这个胆小的孩子的。	The least noise would startle the timid child.
储藏	库存品已经变质，而且全都搞混了，因此经理决定快刀斩乱麻，把它们当作废品出售，然后重新chu3cang2新的物资。	The old stock had deteriorated and was all mixed up so the manager decided to cut the Gordian knot, sell it all as scrap, and re-stock with new materials.
累赘	她热爱自己的家庭, 但家庭却是她事业的lei2zhui5.	She loves her family, but they're a drag on her career.
园艺	yuan2yi4需要些什么工具？	What implements are needed for gardening?
宣战	俄国于是对土耳其xuan1zhan4。	Russia thereupon declared war upon Turkey.
新兴	二十世纪六十年代出现了许多xin1xing1国家。	The 1960s saw the emergence of many new nations.
宽阔	kuan1kuo4，广阔kuan1kuo4的状态、特点或事实	The state, quality, or fact of being wide.
化装	我们想去参加hua4zhuang1舞会。	We want to join in the masquerade.
雷鸣	lei2ming2般的掌声打破了寂静。	The stillness was rent by thunderous applause.
佣金	如果你们能多给我们一些yong4jin1，就可以便于我方推销。	It will be easier for us to push the sale if you can give us more commission.
步兵	炮火掩护bu4bing1前进.	Artillery gave cover (ie fired at the enemy to stop them firing back) while the infantry advanced.
精细	宝石一种jing1xi4地切割成多个面的各种形式的宝石，尤指钻石	A precious gem, especially a diamond, finely cut in any of various forms with numerous facets.
踏板	我的脚怎麽也够不著ta4ban3.	My feet can hardly reach the pedals.
不祥	我有种bu4xiang2的感觉，今天干什么事都不会顺手。	I have a nasty feeling that nothing's going to go right today!
粉笔	把你自己身上掸掸--上面都是fen3bi3末.	Dust yourself down you're covered in chalk.
接见	她拒绝jie1jian4工会代表团.	She refused to meet the union delegation.
向下	猴子头xiang4xia4倒挂在树枝上。	The monkey was hanging head downwards from the branch.
不道德	扫黄对被认为bu4dao4de2或淫秽的文学作品或其它表现或传播此内容的形式进行查禁	Censorship of literature and other forms of expression and communication because of perceived immorality or obscenity.
凝结	这种混合物ning2jie2之後就成了太妃糖.	The mixture solidifies into toffee.
竭力	虽然他jie2li4阻止这桩婚姻，但还是成了事实。	He tried to prevent the marriage but it still took place notwithstanding.
抨击	她写了一本书peng1ji1我们这腐败的社会.	She wrote a book declaiming against our corrupt society.
偏向	那个裁判pian1xiang4那个队。	The umpire showed partiality for that team.
还债	【谚】先huan2zhai4，后慷慨。	Be just before you are generous.
冲进	我劝他不要chong1jin4去，递交辞职书。	I dissuaded him from rushing in to submit his resignation.
补助	bu3zhu4费政府给予工矿企业的bu3zhu4	A subsidy from a government to an industry.
废品	据说惊人的大量有毒物质正堆在英国最大的化学物品fei4pin3站里……当地政府……对……堆在它门口的垃圾理所当然地感到忧虑。	A frightening brew of poisonous waste is said to be accumulating in Britain's biggest chemical dump… The local authority… is rightly worried about the… tip on its doorstep.
谷物	储存的gu3wu4经常受到害虫的破坏。	Stores of grain are frequently attacked by pests.
齿轮	那两个chi3lun2一啮合, 机器就启动了.	The two cog-wheels engaged and the machine started.
深受	她的经历很悲惨, 我们都shen1shou4感动[我们都很伤心].	Her tragic story touched us all deeply/touched our hearts with sorrow.
申诉	shen1su4民事诉讼中被告对原告所做的陈述状的回答	A defendant's answer to the declaration made by the plaintiff in a civil action.
低沉	他用di1chen2的语调说话。	He spoke in sepulchral tones.
商讨	假若贵方愿意接受我们的建议，请通知我们，以便进一步shang1tao3合作的细节。	If this proposal is acceptable to you, please let us know so that we can discuss details.
不定	他对是否参加考察队仍拿bu4ding4主意.	He's still hesitating about joining/over whether to join the expedition.
归咎	他们把通货膨胀大幅度增长gui1jiu4于石油价格的上涨。	They blamed the rise in oil prices for the big increase in inflation.
教士	他认为当jiao4shi4是自己的使命.	He believes it is his calling to become a priest.
挪用	他被控告nuo2yong4俱乐部基金.	He was accused of appropriating club funds.
职权	zhi2quan2的弊端	Abuse of power.
编写	在bian1xie3这本书的过程中，她起了显著的作用。	She play a notable role in compile the book.
现代化	xian4dai4hua4的都市里遍地是高楼大厦。	In modern cities there are high-rise buildings everywhere.
扑灭	他们竭力要把火焰pu1mie4.	They tried to extinguish the flames.
抱有	他对人生bao4you3崇高的理想。	He has lofty ideals about life.
烙印	印刻作用，lao4yin4社会性动物生命早期出现的认知过程，通过与父母或一个其他角色模式的接触而形成的特别的行为方式	A learning process occurring early in the life of a social animal in which a specific behavior pattern is established through association with a parent or other role model.
车身	che1shen1机动车的金属和塑料的外部结构	The metal or plastic external structure of a motor vehicle.
当着	你竟dang1zhe5别人面前告诉他，实在很不机智。	It wasn't very tactful of you to tell him in front of others.
雨衣	她带了太阳帽、 yu3yi1和毛围巾, 一切有备无患.	She prepared for all possibilities by taking a sunhat, a raincoat and a woolly scarf.
得病	前几天他de2bing4了。	He fall sick the other day.
磷	lin2肥含有lin2化合物的一种化肥	A fertilizer containing phosphorus compounds.
冲锋	敌人向山上chong1feng1，企图把我们的兵力摧毁掉。	The enemy charged up the mountain, attempting to knock out our forces.
引出	脚注放在书或手稿的页底的注释，对文中的标明的一部分加以评论或yin3chu1参考书目	A note placed at the bottom of a page of a book or manuscript that comments on or cites a reference for a designated part of the text.
永久性	挛缩一种异常且常为yong3jiu3xing4的缩短，如肌肉或瘢痕组织，会导致扭曲或变形，特别是身体关节处	An abnormal, often permanent shortening, as of muscle or scar tissue, that results in distortion or deformity, especially of a joint of the body.
流言蜚语	她失踪一事引起了各种liu2yan2-fei1yu3.	Her disappearance gave rise to the wildest rumours.
田地	河岸决堤後, tian2di4遭洪水淹没.	When the river burst its banks the fields were inundated.
控制权	计算机程序、例程、或子例程内的具有如下功能的任何指令，执行这条指令后kong4zhi4quan2将不再由该计算机程序、例程、或子例程行使了。	Any instruction in a computer program, in a routine, or in a subroutine after the execution of which control is no longer exercised by that computer program, that routine, or that subroutine.
读数	温度计显示的du2shu4为32C.	The thermometer registered 32C.
杆子	他在地上树起了一根gan1zi5.	He set a post in the ground.
绝密	他因违犯jue2mi4条例, 成了处罚对象.	By breaking the rule of absolute secrecy, he became a marked man.
升空	我们已发射sheng1kong1.	We have lift-off.
叫喊	他们打开包裹, 高兴地jiao4han3起来.	They opened the parcel with whoops of delight.
下摆	她的连衣裙xia4bai3离膝盖整整三英寸.	Her dress was a full three inches above the knee.
集资	ji2zi1的困难使我们的建筑计划受到了阻碍。	Difficulties in raising money have set back our building program.
劝说	经quan4shuo1, 他们签署了放弃向房东索赔的权利.	They were persuaded to sign a waiver of claims against the landlord.
任职	他已由仓库调到会计室ren4zhi2.	He has transferredfrom the warehouse to the accounts office.
文人	wen2ren2，学者被作为一个群体看待的受过教育的人；wen2ren2	Educated people considered as a group; the literati.
拱	那个gong3的跨度为60米.	The arch has a span of 60 metres.
起义	它组织了一个反对侵略者的qi3yi4。	It organized an insurrection against the aggressors.
云层	yun2ceng2的构成方式有好几种。	There are several kinds of cloud formations.
分清	我们应该fen1qing1是非。	We should make a distinction between right and wrong.
用意	他的yong4yi4很好，但他做起来却不令人满意。	His intention was good, but his execution of the plan was unsatisfactory.
沉静	暴风雨之后是一片chen2jing4。	The storm was succeeded by calm.
本市	她无疑是ben3shi4最好的律师。	She is easily the best lawyer in the city.
善心	他的shan4xin1使得许多穷孩子上大学成为可能。	His benevolence made it possible for many poor children to attend college.
由此	羞怯的，局促不安的具有害羞的、胆怯的、不安的特征的，表现出此种特性的，you2ci3种特性引起的	Characterized by, showing, or resulting from shyness, self-consciousness, or awkwardness.
索赔	他suo3pei2过高反而使他的要求无法实现。	He prejudiced his claim by demanding too much compensation.
麦芽	男主人拿出了一瓶12年的优质mai4ya2威士忌。	The host took out a bottle of 12-year-old malt whisky to entertain us.
潮水	chao2shui3正在高涨。	The tide is at the flood.
显微镜	矫作物非正常出现而是由外界因素或作用所产生的一种结构或物质，如经固定后，在xian3wei1jing4下才能看到的标本中的一种活生命组织中不会出现的结构	A structure or substance not normally present but produced by an external agent or action, such as a structure seen in a microscopic specimen after fixation that is not present in the living tissue.
辛辣	浓烈的气味xin1la4或浓烈的	Sharp or pungent to the smell.
克林顿	Ke4lin2dun4就职美国总统。	Mr. Clinton was inaugurated as the President of the U.S.A.
航道	横越…的hang2dao4穿过（船）的航向，航线或路线	Across the course, line, or length of.
密谋	阴谋，mi4mou2秘密的或不光彩的计划；mi4mou2	A secret or underhand scheme; a plot.
搬运	这些货物必须小心ban1yun4。	This freight must be carefully handled.
苦头	该镇未采取适当的防洪措施, 现在吃到了ku3tou5.	The town is now counting the cost of its failure to provide adequate flood protection.
一连	这里yi1lian2好几天都是雨天。	There are a succession of rainy days here.
与生俱来	我不赞成损害yu3sheng1ju4lai2的愚昧的任何事物。	I do not approve of anything which tampers with natural ignorance.
付诸	他的建议在理论上可以, 但不能fu4zhu1实现。	His proposition is good in theory but cannot be put into practice.
未曾	她wei4ceng2想发牢骚无形中反倒帮了彼得的忙.	She didn't realize that by complaining she was only playing Peter's game.
尽心尽力	他像是想要人jin4xin1jin4li4伺候他。	He seems to expect to be wait on hand and foot.
脱下	在某些亚洲的国家，进屋子之前tuo1xia4鞋子才是有礼貌的。	Before entering a house in some Asian countries, it is good manners to take off your shoes.
长得	篱笆附近有一丛玫瑰，zhang3 de5非常美丽。	There is a rosebush near the fence and it is very beautiful.
油箱	我需要一个漏斗把汽油灌进you2xiang1.	I need a funnel to pour petrol into the tank.
俯瞰	我们从山上fu3kan4下面的山谷。	We looked down from the mountain to the valley below.
一窍不通	我对农业yi1 qiao4 bu4 tong1。	I know nothing about agriculture.
法国人	据说Fa3guo2ren2是世界上最浪漫的民族之一。	It is said that Frenchmen are among the most romantic people in the world.
致意	如果你万一见到他，请代我向他zhi4yi4。	If you should happen to see him, please give him my regards.
撤出	部队从沦陷的城市安全che4chu1。	The troop made good their retreat from the occupied city.
崎岖	qi2qu1不平的道路使车颠簸得很厉害。	The rough road made the car vibrate.
决议	政府通过了一项不得人心的jue2yi4。	The government passed an unpopular decision.
欠债	要是你花的比我们挣的还多，我们就要qian4zhai4了。	We'll run into debt if you spend more than our income.
鸦片	第三天，他们就交出了两万箱ya1pian4。	On the third day, they handed over20000 chests of opium.
非正式	人际网由具有共同兴趣或爱好的人组成的fei1zheng4shi4体系。人们互相帮助、互相交换信息或工作联系的进展	An informal system whereby persons having common interests or concerns assist each other, as in the exchange of information or the development of professional contacts.
归功	他的表演有进步，这应该gui1gong1於他的教练。	His improved performance does credit to his trainer.
豆类	长寿饮食法的饮食主要是含胚芽和麸的谷物及dou4lei4。	Macrobiotic adhere to a diet consist primarily of whole grains and bean.
双臂	他的shuang1bi4和双腿严重受伤。	He suffered serious injuries to the arms and legs.
摆出	他bai3chu1一幅笑脸，不过这似乎让他使尽了全身的气力。	He summoned up a smile, though it seemed to take all his strength.
挤满	房间里ji3man3了客人。	The room was crowded with guests.
滑行	我们关闭发动机开始hua2xing2.	We switched off the motor and started to drift (along).
庆贺	节日，喜庆日享受或qing4he4的时节，尤指在宗教意义上有定期间隔的一天或一段时间	An occasion for feasting or celebration, especially a day or time of religious significance that recurs at regular intervals.
咽下	不管你的食物是蔬菜还是肉，在yan4xia4以前咀嚼，是最重要的。	It is most important to chew your food, whether vegetable or meat, before you swallow it down.
安葬	an1zang4是在大清早进行的，没有举行葬礼。	The burial was done early in the morning without a ceremony.
政党	措词强烈的社论可以简单地归结为zheng4dang3政治的纲领	The scathing editorial simply boils down to an exercise in partisan politics.
半径	警察搜查了ban4jing4两英里范围内所有的田野和森林。	The police searched all the fields and woods within a radius of two miles.
混合物	麦麸由谷糠和营养物质调成的hun4he2wu4，用以饲养牲畜和家禽	A mixture of ground grain and nutrients fed to livestock and fowl.
床位	我可以在我的寓所里为你提供一个chuang2wei4。	I'll fit you up with a bed at my flat.
侵害	我反对我们的隐私权受到qin1hai4。	I object to our privacy being invaded.
休养	玛丽的父亲动手术后需要长期在疗养院xiu1yang3。	Mary's father had to stay in a rest home for a long time after his operation.
排泄	pai2xie4的，排除的引起腹泻，尤指肠泻的；净肠的	Causing evacuation, especially of the bowels; purgative.
三角形	他用红笔画出san1jiao3xing2.	He outlined the triangle in red.
教义	基督派基督十二使徒之一宣传他的jiao4yi4。	Apostles were sent out by Christ to spread his teachings.
生人	他在sheng1ren2面前总是不知要说什么。	He is always at a loss what to say in front of strangers.
全权	特命quan2quan2公使派驻国外使馆的特命quan2quan2使节，仅低于大使	A minister plenipotentiary assigned to a foreign embassy, ranking next below the ambassador.
交加	因风雪jiao1jia1道路上混乱不堪.	The wintry weather has caused chaos on the roads.
老掉牙	那电影的情节是lao3diao4ya2的。	The film had a rather tired plot.
精湛	医术最jing1zhan4的医生们在国王生病时诊治他。	The most eminent doctors treated the king in his illness.
先行	在我完全不了解的情况下, 她已xian1xing2办好了度假的预订手续.	Quite unknown to me, she'd gone ahead and booked the holiday.
运动场	我宁愿在花园锄草，也不愿在yun4dong4chang3上跑来跑去。	I would rather hoe in the garden than run about on the playground.
摄取	素食者所she4qu3的蛋白质不是来自肉类而是来自近似肉类的食物.	A vegetarian gets protein not from meat but from its analogues.
肥料	给花园施些fei2liao4吧！	Do some fertilization for the garden!
排挤	小商店受到大型超级市场不断pai2ji3.	Small shops are being crowded out by the big supermarkets.
床铺	请在早饭前把chuang2pu4好.	Please make your beds before breakfast.
树丛	那士兵看见一支枪从矮shu4cong2伸出来。	The soldier saw a gun jutting out from a bush.
起居室	我的qi3ju1shi4的墙上挂着一块壁毯。	The wall of my living room was hung with a tapestry.
李子	半数的li3zi5腐烂了.	Half of the plums are rotten.
斧子	她一fu3zi5就把树苗砍倒了.	She cut down the sapling with one chop.
叫作	她把新歌剧院jiao4zuo4 “那讨厌的庞然大物”。	She calls the new opera house ""that hideous erection"".
分化	社会已fen1hua4成两个阶级。	Society has polarized into two classes.
父母亲	他为fu4-mu3qin1兴建了一楝新房子。	He has built his parents a new house.
快步	他和他的舞伴带头跳一种kuai4bu4舞。	He led off with his companion in a sort of quick-step.
受贿	我对这些官员的普遍shou4hui4感到震惊。	I'm shocked at the prevalence of bribery among these officials.
寺院	si4yuan4的墙壁上刻著很多装饰物.	Many adornments were carved on the temple walls.
无足轻重	他只听到他们交谈中wu2 zu2 qing1-zhong4的部分.	He only heard the fag-end of their conversation.
快艇	他们能够用雷达测定kuai4ting3的方位.	They were able to position the yacht by means of radar.
罚球	利物浦队因对方一队员用手触球而得到一个fa2qiu2。	Liverpool were given a penalty when one of their opponents handled the ball.
奴役	nu2yi4与自由是对立的.	Slavery is the antithesis of freedom.
卧床	我病了, 我得wo4chuang2休息。	I am sick, I have to confine to bed.
雄性	这种行为是xiong2xing4特有的吗?	Is this behaviour typical of the male sex?
镇压	政府对这次罢工的zhen4ya1失败了。	The government's repression of the strike failed.
关切	大群大群的人聚集到监狱外面，表示他们的guan1qie4。	Huge crowds gathered outside the prison to demonstrate their concern.
语调	主席一直以沉闷的yu3diao4讲了几小时.	The chairman droned on for hours.
及其	那些出席者中有首相ji2qi2丈夫.	Among those present were the Prime Minister and her husband.
新建	我家附近xin1jian4了一家工厂。	A new factory was established near my home.
轻快	qing1kuai4的心情	In a volatile mood.
独裁者	该du2cai2zhe3发布命令，将其生日定为公众假期。	The dictator decreed that his birthday would be a public holiday.
递交	我劝他不要急急忙忙di4jiao1辞职书。	I dissuade him from rush in to submit his resignation.
回声	他的声音在空荡的大厅里发出hui2sheng1。	His voice echoed in the big empty hall.
连忙	他正跑开时，我在背后叫他，他lian2mang2转过身来看看我。	I called him as he was running away and he wheeled round and looked at me.
节拍	那群少年正合着摇摆音乐的jie2pai1跳舞。	The teenagers were rocking about.
伤员	许多shang1yuan2死在去医院的途中了.	Many of the wounded died on their way to hospital.
拉倒	您既然不能降价，那这笔交易不如就la1dao3吧。	Since you cannot reduce the price, we may call off the deal(business) as well.
内分泌	nei4fen1mi4学研究身体腺体和激素以及他们之间相关的失调的科学	The study of the glands and hormones of the body and their related disorders.
凝	冷ning2将气体或蒸汽转化成液体的过程	The process by which a gas or vapor changes to a liquid.
泵	你需用beng4著实抽吸几分钟, 才能把油箱灌满.	You will need to pump hard for several minutes to fill the tank.
并存	这两种有关政治行为的理论有差异，但彼此可bing4cun2。	The two theories of political behavior vary, but they are compossible.
不规则	他的脉搏bu4gui1ze2。	His pulse was unsteady.
回击	从一开始他就进行hui2ji1。	He hit back from the beginning.
东面	东部地区处于dong1mian4的区域或地带	An area or a region lying in the east.
气派	在这个贫穷的地区，他的贵族qi4pai4显得很可笑。	His aristocratic manners seemed ridiculous in this poor area.
减价	这种所谓的大jian3jia4不过是个骗局!	This so-called bargain is just a con!
花光	我把赚的钱都hua1guang1了。	I've spent all my earnings.
感染力	他对他的选民表现出很有gan3ran3li4的热情。	He expressed infectious enthusiasm to his voters.
身穿	小酒店里净是shen1chuan1花呢衣服的农民.	The pub was full of tweedy farmers.
搁置	兴建新剧院的计画因资金短缺只好ge1zhi4起来.	The plans for a new theatre have had to be shelved because of lack of money.
所得	有suo3de2也可能有所失.	What you gain on the swings you'll probably lose on the roundabouts.
抹布	她用ma1bu4把房间擦得乾乾净净。	She went over the room with a duster.
俘获	五百名造反者被fu2huo4并缴了械.	Five hundred rebels were captured and disarmed.
查阅	警方正在cha2yue4类似案件的档案.	The police are trawling (through) their files for similar cases.
吊销	他撞车后驾驶执照被diao4xiao1了。	His driving licence was revoked after the crash.
著称	这个城市因为各种桥梁而zhu4cheng1。	This city is noted for its various bridges.
奉命	士兵们feng4ming4举枪致敬.	The soldiers were ordered to present arms.
制造业	该zhi4zao4ye4若不现代化就不能继续存在.	If the industry doesn't modernize it will not survive.
轰炸机	我军高射炮击落五架敌军hong1zha4ji1.	Our anti-aircraft guns accounted for five enemy bombers.
司令部	有si1ling4bu4的任何命令吗？	Are their any orders coming from the headquarters?
西洋	Xi1yang2樱草生长于热带国家吗？	Does cowslip grow in tropic countries?
文本	本合同两种wen2ben3同等有效。	Both texts of the contract are equally valid.
约克	她在Yue1ke4上学.	She went to school/university/college in York.
零度	昨夜温度计显示气温下降到ling2du4.	The thermometer fell to zero lastnight.
木匠	琼斯先生是个巧mu4jiang5。	Mr. Jones is a clever carpenter.
汇集	人群hui4ji2在宫殿的四周。	The crowds concentrated round the palace.
有效期	他申请延长签证you3xiao4qi1。	He asked for an extension of his visa.
电压	扩展器在某一给定范围的输入dian4ya1内产生较大输出dian4ya1的转换器	A transducer designed for a given range of input voltages that produces a larger range of output voltages.
全班	当被介绍给quan2ban1同学时，玛丽很害羞。	Mary was shy at her introduction to the whole class.
噩耗	他母亲去世的e4hao4使他非常震惊.	The news of his mother's death was a terrible shock to him.
创下	她用一个问答的方式引起她的演讲。这支乐队通过全国巡回演出来chuang4xia4了自己的记录	She followed her lecture with a question-and-answer period. The band followed its hit record with a national tour.
现行	一切情况都可依据xian4xing2章程的结构加以考虑。	All the cases can be considered within the framework of the existing rules.
文静	我想要朴素而wen2jing4的。	I'd like something plain and quiet.
所有权	公社主义公社suo3you3quan2的信仰或实践，如对商品和财产	Belief in or practice of communal ownership, as of goods and property.
利兹	他从Li4zi1远道而来寻找工作.	He has come all the way from Leeds to look for a job.
装载	zhuang1zai4吨船舶内部容积单位，等于一百立方英尺	A unit of internal capacity of a ship equal to100 cubic feet.
下列	付款可用xia4lie4任何一仲方式：现金，支票或用信用卡。	Payment may be made in any of the following ways, by cash, by cheque, or by credit card.
成份	把这条句子的各个cheng2fen4加以分析。	Analyze the sentence into its constituent parts.
推移	随着时间的tui1yi2，听众越来越多了。	The hearers increased quickly as time went on.
起程	我们在黎明qi3cheng2, 直驶纽约。	We set sail at dawn and headed for New York.
灌木	这些guan4mu4的蔓生枝条该剪了.	These straggly stems should be pruned off the bush.
氢	qing1极易爆炸。	Hydrogen is highly explosive.
产量	作物的chan3liang4取决於土地的肥沃程度.	The size of the crop depends on the productivity of the soil.
纪念碑	这座ji4nian4bei1是为了纪念革命烈士而树立的。	The monument was built in honor of the revolutionary martyrs.
深远	充实，shen1yuan3意义意义、意味或含义丰富的性质或状态	The quality or condition of being rich in significance, import, or implication.
指针	＂一位在钟塔上工作的油漆工把一桶油漆挂在一根zhi3zhen1上，把钟弄慢了。＂	A painter who had been working on the clock tower hung a pot of paint on one of the hands and slowed it down!
羚羊	ling2yang2跑起来速度惊人。	Gazelles can move with astonishing velocity.
津贴	我的一部分jin1tie1被扣去付了饭费。	Part of my allowance is kept back to pay for my meals.
冲走	村庄在水坝决堤时被chong1zou3了。	The village was swept away when the dam burst.
栖息	这些树林里经常qi1xi1着各种鸟类。	These woods are frequented by all kinds of birds.
借给	你能jie4gei3我五美元吗？	Can you lend me five dollars?
杂草	灭草剂用来摧毁或抑制植物，尤指za2cao3的生长的化学物质	A chemical substance used to destroy or inhibit the growth of plants, especially weeds.
结巴	他一紧张就jie1ba5。	He stammers when he feels nervous.
得不到	我原来一直盼望著能收到她送的礼物, 所以因de2bu5dao4而失望.	I was expecting a present from her, so I was disappointed I didn't receive one.
大一	我买不起像特德那样的照相机。这要花好da4yi1笔钱。	I can't possibly afford to buy a camera like Ted's. It costs the earth.
执政	工党从1964年到1970年zhi2zheng4.	The Labour Party was in government from 1964 to 1970.
朗诵	他抑扬顿挫地lang3song4诗歌。	He read the poems with cadence.
杂乱	她的房间十分za2luan4，她不好意思请我进去。	Her room is in such a litter that she is ashamed to ask me in.
饲料	母鸡的si4liao4不够了.	There isn't enough feed left for the hens.
人情味	新闻记者应不应该有点ren2qing2wei4？	Should the press be human?
温习	她忙著wen1xi2美国宪法, 准备明天的考试.	She's busy getting up the American constitution for tomorrow's exam.
过剩	那些孩子在操场上玩, 宣泄guo4sheng4的精力.	The children were out in the playground letting off steam.
群山	他们越过qun2shan1，到了那边的山谷。	They crossed the mountains and travelled to the valleys beyond.
不折不扣	她bu4zhe2-bu4kou4地履行了她的所有诺言。	She carry out all her pledge to the letter.
学科	计算机科学目前已是一门成熟的xue2ke1。	Computer science is now a fully-fledged academic subject.
笔直	如果灯杆不是bi3zhi2的，我就感到烦恼。	It annoys me if a lamppost is not bolt upright.
叫唤	我想我听到有人jiao4huan5。	I think I hear that someone cries out.
首脑	这条消息是关於最近的shou3nao3级会议的.	The news is all about the latest summit meeting.
迂回	yu1hui2管道用于引导气体或液体绕过其它管道或装置的一种管道或渠道	A pipe or channel used to conduct gas or liquid around another pipe or a fixture.
哀求	｀救救我吧,＇他ai1qiu2道.	`Help me,' he implored.
凹	ao1形，ao1面与浅的ao1型盛食物的容器相似的ao1处	A depression similar to that in a shallow concave container for food.
前兆	这场重要战役的失利是我们败局已定的qian2zhao4.	Defeat in this important battle was the beginning of the end for us.
大路	顺着这条da4lu4走，在路的分岔口向右拐。	Follow the main road until it branches, and then turn to the right.
神庙	人们认为这座shen2miao4是古典式设计的范例。	The temple has been considered an example of classic design.
矿石	kuang4shi2，矿藏确实的或可能的矿藏	An actual or probable mineral deposit.
起因	事故往往qi3yin1于粗心。	Accidents often arise from carelessness.
长短	寿命存在时间chang2duan3；年代	Length of existence; age.
假想	纬线，纬度圈与赤道平面平行且环绕地球用来表明纬度高低的许多jia3xiang3线中的任意一条	Any of the imaginary lines representing degrees of latitude that encircle the earth parallel to the plane of the equator.
气馁	他跌下来也并未qi4nei3，继续攀登。	He continued the climb, undaunted by his fall.
章节	附注列在一篇文章、一个zhang1jie2或一本书尾的注解，对文中指定部分做评论或引述参考书	A note placed at the end of an article, a chapter, or a book that comments on or cites a reference for a designated part of the text.
显出	他神色紧张, xian3chu1有罪的样子.	His nervous looks condemned him.
装入	把多余的杯子都重新zhuang1ru4箱中.	Repack all the superfluous cups in the box.
几何	从高处往下看, 那些农田像是ji3he2图案.	Seen from above, the fields looked like a geometrical pattern.
钳子	一会儿她就用qian2zi5把孩子接下来了。	In a little while she delivered the baby with forceps.
免受	这种植物必须遮起来，mian3shou4阳光直射。	These plants must be sheltered from direct sunlight.
煤矿	矿车、煤车mei2kuang4中在轨道上行驶的四轮、开口、盒状的运货车或铁制车厢	A four-wheeled, open, box-shaped wagon or iron car run on tracks in a coal mine.
理事会	有多少人在争夺li3shi4hui4的这一席位？	How many people are contesting this seat on the council?
恐怖主义	我们一定要消灭kong3bu4zhu3yi4。	We are determined to smash terrorism.
腾	我每天尽量teng2出一些时间锻炼一下身体.	I try to set aside a few minutes each day to do some exercises.
拷打	他kao3da3犯人。	He tortured his prisoners.
短缺	歉收引起食物严重duan3que1。	The bad harvest led to severe food shortage.
桂冠	戴gui4guan1的戴以月gui4guan1或饰以月挂作为荣誉标志的	Crowned or decked with laurel as a mark of honor.
纪念馆	ji4nian4guan3址已选定在加拿大作为永久的纪念.	The site of the memorial is granted in perpetuity to Canada.
美术馆	那年轻画家的作品已在几家mei3shu4guan3中展出.	The young painter has exhibited (his work) in several galleries.
游说	他为竞选国会议员席位进行you2shui4。	He canvassed for a seat in Parliament.
轻率	他对该提议qing1shuai4的拒绝激怒了我。	His rash dismissal of the offer annoyed me.
精疲力竭	在办公室是熬过了平凡的一天后，我jing1pi2-li4jie2了。	After an ordinary day at the office I feel completely washed up.
果园	她在guo3yuan2里到处跑。	She ran hither and thither in the orchard.
松树	song1shu4是常青树。	Pines are evergreens.
议程	我们讨论yi4cheng2表上的下一项吧.	Let's go on to the next item on the agenda.
稳固	亲密wen3gu4的友谊；亲密	Established friendship; intimacy.
谣传	yao2chuan2近期鸡蛋要涨价。	A rumor went forth that the price of eggs would be raised soon.
月底	借来的钱使他支撑到yue4di3。	The money he borrowed carried him through to the end of month.
喊叫	这一小群人发出了刺耳的han3jiao4。	A ragged shout went up from the small crowd.
谷类	粗磨粉gu3lei4植物完全或粗磨的可食用颗粒	The edible whole or coarsely ground grains of a cereal grass.
帆布	这个洞被fan1bu4遮盖住了.	The hole was covered (over) with canvas.
栽赃	这伙小偷计划好在警察进房搜查时，把偷来的手表zai1zang1到同住的房客身上。	The thieves had planned to plant the stolen watches on a fellow lodger if the police came to search the house.
钟点	我父亲刚出去散步，但半个zhong1dian3后就要回来。	My father has just gone for a walk, but he'll be back in half an hour.
收成	因为长时间的干旱，农民们对于好shou1cheng5的前景是怀疑的。	Because of a long drought, the farmers are doubtful about the prospect of a good yield.
一方面	中国菜在每yi1fang1mian4都是精美的。	Everything about Chinese food is refined.
烟斗	那老汉正在吸著yan1dou3.	The old man was sucking at his pipe.
吼叫	这狮子hou3jiao4。	The lion roars.
合乎	派来调查的警察说，我家的大门是根据极其he2hu1科学的原理给撬开来的。	The policeman who is sent down to examine, says my house has been broken open on the most scientific principle.
复制品	凹版印刷品凹版印刷生产的fu4zhi4pin3	A reproduction produced by gravure.
导管	截dao3guan3这种管子的一部分或一段	A section or piece of such a tube.
信贷	有几家银行在xin4dai4方面紧缩起来了。	Some banks tightened up on their credits.
秃顶	他有个看法是男人戴帽子就会tu1ding3.	He has a theory that wearing hats makes men go bald.
药方	这是我给你开的yao4fang1。	Here's my prescription.
摊开	那律师装上笔尖；tan1kai1纸张，准备缮写。	The lawyer nib his pen, spread out his paper, and prepared to write.
首次	这种图案的钞票是十年前shou3ci4发行的。	Banknotes of this design were first issued 10 years ago.
剃刀	ti4dao1锋利刮得就乾净.	A sharp razor gives a close shave.
英亩	开拓三十ying1mu3土地	Developing a30-acre tract.
门廊	我是在教堂的men2lang2处遇到那个人的。	I met that person at the porch of the church.
期刊	如果能把这篇文章登在你的qi1kan1上我将很高兴。	I should be glad if you could insert this article into your periodical.
军舰	敌人的jun1jian4封锁了港口。	The enemy's ships blockaded the harbor.
革新	从他领导后，一个又一个ge2xin1项目出现了。	After being led by him, one innovation after another are showing.
红茶	武夷hong2cha2，hong2cha2一种中国hong2cha2，起初是精选出来的高等级品，后来质量较差	A black Chinese tea, originally the choicest grade but later an inferior variety.
构想	一般人是不是反对欧洲国家政治联合的gou4xiang3呢？	Does the common man oppose the ideas of political union between European countries?
山头	这次爆炸把shan1tou2炸掉了。	The explosion blasted the hill-top off.
自然界	这个小岛包含著小而完整的zi4ran2jie4.	This small island contains the whole of nature in microcosm.
以防	他还申请了另外两份工作, yi3fang2这份工作面试不合格.	He's applying for two other jobs as an insurance against not passing the interview for this one.
撇开	她开始与罗杰外出约会, 就把我pie1kai1了.	She gave me the elbow when she started going out with Roger.
家常便饭	他上学迟到，但这对他而言已是jia1chang2 bian4fan4了。	He was late for school, as (which) was often the case with him.
快餐店	该kuai4can1dian4通过出售联营经销权而扩大了生意。	That fast food business have expanded through the sale of franchise.
买主	珍将她的珍珠项链送到了好几个市场，但是没有找到mai3zhu3。	Jane send her pearl necklace to several market, but find no purchaser.
独唱	比尔先唱du2chang4部分, 然後大家一起合唱.	Bill sang the verses and everyone joined in the chorus.
挂钩	把你的外衣挂在那个gua4gou1上.	Hang your coat (up) on that hook.
车胎	使用冬季专用che1tai1在泥地或雪地上可增加附著摩擦力.	Winter tyres give increased traction in mud or snow.
电气	当飞机上的灯一下子熄灭时，旅客显得很紧张，但当机长告诉他们这只不过是一次dian4qi4故障，很快就会修好时，他们才放下心来。	The passengers became alarmed when the lights went out on the plane, but the captain put their minds at rest when he told them it was only a minor electrical fault and it would soon be repaired.
唾沫	她向他[他的脸上]啐了一口tuo4mo5.	She spat at him/in his face.
劳动力	农场里的lao2dong4li4在不断减少。	The farm labour force is running down steadily.
马达	这条大船的ma3da2坏了，无法再航行了。	With its engine broken, this great ship was not navigable.
擦洗	虽然她彻底地用力ca1xi3那只旧壶，但她无法把它完全洗干净。	Although she scrubbed the old pot thoroughly, she could not make it look completely clean.
杀虫剂	土壤施用sha1chong2ji4後肥力大增.	The fertility of the soil has been greatly improved by the use of pesticides.
原位	卡车转弯时车上货物滑离了yuan2wei4.	The lorry turned and its load slipped.
脱掉	我的车轮子在汽车比赛中途tuo1diao4了。	My wheel twisted off in the middle of the car race.
即可	你只要出示你的护照ji2ke3。	You have only to show your passport.
汇款	你方是否已收到我方hui4kuan3？	Have you received our remittance?
签发	已qian1fa1了他的逮捕令（治安法官签署的命令，它给予警察逮捕罪犯的权力。	A magistrate have sign a warrant, give the police the power to arrest someone for a crime.
老头儿	他化装扮演一个lao3tou2r5。	He made up for the part of an old man.
海港	他来自于一个大型hai3gang3城市。	He came from a large seaport.
矿物	岩石和kuang4wu4都是无机物.	Rocks and minerals are inorganic.
义卖	我得找些零碎东西捐给教堂作yi4mai4.	I must look out some bits and pieces for the church jumble sale.
箭头	跟著地图上的jian4tou2走.	Follow the arrows on the map.
人道主义	这位ren2dao4 zhu3yi4科学家呼吁改善穷人的生活条件。	The humanitarian scientist called on the improvement of the poor's living condition.
空运	kong1yun4货物费用十分昂贵。	The transport of goods by air is very expensive.
决断	果断，jue2duan4性格或行动的坚定；坚决	Firmness of character or action; determination.
雅典	我摸过巴台农神殿中楣石柱的复制品，我意识到向前冲锋的的Ya3dian3武士的匀称和谐美。	I have felt copies of Parthenon Friezes, and I have sensed the rhythmic beauty of charging Athenian warriors.
宝库	【谚】知识是bao3ku4，实践是钥匙。	Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it.
报刊	他们利用bao4kan1来传播右翼观点.	They use the press to disseminate right-wing views.
种族歧视	他极端反对zhong3zu2 qi2shi4.	He is passionately opposed to racial discrimination.
总得	我已写一封抱怨信给国家铁路部门，zong3dei3有人要支持提高服务标准。	I've written a letter of complaint to State Rail; somebody has got to carry the banner for better standards of service.
定金	在预订时交付ding4jin1是一般的[普遍遵守的]惯例.	It is accepted/standard practice to pay a deposit with one's order.
交付	战胜国要求战败国jiao1fu4巨额赔款.	The victorious nations are demanding huge indemnities from their former enemies.
要好	谁也敬爱全凭一已之力奋斗成功的人，以此法获得成功当然比完全无法成功yao4hao3得多。	Everybody like and respects self-made men; it's a great deal better to be made that that way then not to be made at all.
惟一	殉教行为，是无德无能者可以一举成名的wei2yi1途径。	Martyrdom is the only way in which a man can become famous without ability.
道谢	约翰在离去前特意向女主人dao4xie4。	John made a point of thanking his hostess before his leaving.
隆隆	火车long2long2地驶出郊区。	The train whooped out through the suburbs.
游手好闲	那个傻孩子从来不做事，只是整天you2shou3-hao4xian2。	That silly child never does anything; he just fools about all day long.
暴乱	大街上突然发生了bao4luan4.	Violence has erupted on the streets.
读物	你有很多供火车旅行时阅读的du2wu4吗?	Have you a good supply of reading matter for the train journey?
肝炎	据说那种植物可用来治gan1yan2。	It is said that the plant can be used to treat hepatitis.
决定性	我们经济的jue2ding4xing4因素是控制通货膨胀。	The determinate factor of our economy is to control inflation.
亮光	油灯发出柔和的liang4guang1。	The oil-lamp sent out a gentle beam.
撇下	他们pie1xia5我走了, 使我很不痛快.	I was annoyed to find they had left without me.
境遇	他对自己目前的jing4yu4颇为得意。	He is quite content with his present fortune.
收割	农民们在shou1ge1完庄稼后常烧茬子。	Farmers often burn the stubble after they have cut the corn.
风力	feng1li4是按0-12级标准等级测量的。	The force of the wind is measured on a standard scale of 0-12.
牵引	（qian1yin3时所用的）力量在拉时所施的力或要克服的阻力	Force exerted in pulling or required to overcome resistance in pulling.
浆果	让我们来检查一下jiang1guo3，把梗和叶子拣掉。	Let's pick the berries over for stems and leaves.
形形色色	不同身份的、xing2xing2se4se4的人都出席了。	Divers persons were present, of all stations in life.
不朽	让死者有那bu4xiu3的名，但让生者有那bu4xiu3的爱。	Let the dead have the immortality of fame, but the living the immortality of love.
三维	立方体是san1wei2物体。	A cube is a three-dimensional object.
一头	这是我们的房间，你们的在走廊的那yi1tou2。	This is our room, and yours is down the passage.
特务	民兵抓着了一个te4wu5。	The militiamen have caught a spy.
丁香	ding1xiang1盛开着。	The clove is in full bloom.
游击队	火车受到you2ji1dui4的袭击。	The train is attacked by guerilla.
枯竭	久病後他的生命力逐渐在ku1jie2。	His life is slowly draining away after a long illness.
逐出	不要逾期不缴房租, 否则会被zhu2chu1.	Don't fall behind with the rent, or you'll be evicted.
在行	我对电脑的维修保养很zai4hang2。	Maintenance of PC is in my element.
初始	chu1shi3设计开发阶段，首先必须发现可能存在的错误，并作相应的设计修改。正是在这个时期中，设计辅助程序、仿真技术和设计支援技术对于快速设计都是必不可少的。	The initial design development stage wherein, at first, it is certain that errors will be discovered which will require design changes. It is in this period that design aids, emulation techniques, and supportive design techniques are essential to quick design.
穷困	尽管他的祖父是贵族，他却非常qiong2kun4。	Although his grandfather was a nobleman, he was very poor.
困苦	现在父亲已去世，我们一定要经得起痛苦的打击，并学会忍受艰难kun4ku3。	Now that Father is dead, we must bits the bullet and learn to put up with hardship.
溶化	伊卡罗斯代达罗斯的儿子，他乘着他父亲做的人工翅膀逃离克里特时，由于离太阳太近以致粘翅膀用的蜡rong2hua4了，而掉进了爱琴海	The son of Daedalus who, in escaping from Crete on artificial wings made for him by his father, flew so close to the sun that the wax with which his wings were fastened melted, and he fell into the Aegean Sea.
敲击	主席qiao1ji1桌子以维持秩序。	The chairman rapped on the table for order.
亚麻	梳麻针排用来分开ya4ma2纤维的梳子	A comb for separating flax fibers.
围住	他用一只手臂wei2zhu4她做出保护的姿势。	He put his arm round her in a protective gesture.
令人	噪音ling4ren2讨厌，尤其当你想睡觉的时候。	Noise is unpleasant, especially when you are trying to sleep.
引人注意	在国会里，地方税收问题似乎又成了yin3ren2zhu4yi4的问题。	The question of local taxation seems to come again to the front in the Congress.
南希	后台传来的响声把Nan2xi1吓坏了，她忘记了台词。	The noise backstage scared Nancy and she blew her lines.
老练	稚嫩的；无经验的，不lao3lian4的缺乏经验或lao3lian4的；天真的	Lacking experience or sophistication; naive.
听讲	有相当多的人来ting1jiang3.	Quite a few people came to the lecture.
公费	政府计画严格限制今年gong1fei4开支.	The government plans to set strict limits on public spending this year.
走道	zou3dao4人可以在上面行走的地方，如人行道或散步场所	A place, such as a sidewalk or promenade, on which one may walk.
球门	他们有三个队员防守qiu2men2.	They had three players defending the goal (against attack).
天体	太阳，星星和月亮都是tian1ti3。	The sun, the stars and the moon are celestial bodies.
拍子	乐队的每个成员都必须跟着pai1zi5演奏。	Every member of the band must follow the beat.
用人	这些yong4ren2（对我来说）帮不上忙反而是累赘.	The servants were more of a hindrance than a help (to me).
若是	你ruo4shi4规规矩矩的，老板就可能提拔你。	If you keep your nose clean, the boss might promote you.
自始至终	他会上发言从来不切中要点，而zi4 shi3 zhi4 zhong1都是谈得不着边际。	He never came to the point, but talked round the subject throughout the meeting.
盛会	彩旗给这次sheng4hui4增添了欢乐的气氛.	The colourful flags added to the gaiety of the occasion.
我方	我想你方技术人员可以在wo3fang1用户的工厂里接受培训。	I think your technician can be trained in the factory of our customer.
多种	这台机器有duo1zhong3用途。	The uses of this machine are manifold.
危难	她在wei1nan4时总是很冷静、 镇定如常、 泰然自若.	She always stays cool, calm and collected in a crisis.
只管	你什麽也不用做--zhi3guan3轻松愉快地享受旅游的乐趣.	You don't have to do anything just lie back and enjoy the journey.
匪徒	屋子里的东西被fei3tu2们洗劫一空。	The bandits made off with everything in the house.
奖状	奖品，jiang3zhuang4称赞的某事，特别是官方的奖品或jiang3zhuang4	Something, especially an official award or citation, that commends.
奖牌	解放军队获得了大部分jiang3pai2。	The army team carried off most of the medals.
不愉快	他的举止起初让人很bu4yu2kuai4, 但是经过进一步接触他改了许多.	His manner seemed unpleasant at first, but he improved on further acquaintance.
字样	在绝密档案上标有｀只供总统亲阅＇zi4yang4.	The top secret file was marked For the President's eyes only'.
山脚	那村庄位於shan1jiao3下.	The village nestled at the foot of the hill.
歌剧院	她把新ge1ju4yuan4称作｀那讨厌的庞然大物＇.	She calls the new opera house that hideous erection'.
模子	金属铸模金属锭在其中被铸的mu2zi5	A mold in which such metal is cast.
焊	有些金属容易han4，有的不容易han4。	Some metals weld better than others.
政变	不流血的zheng4bian4	A bloodless coup.
精力充沛	她瘦长结实的身体看上去jing1li4 chong1pei4。	Her wiry athletic body seems energetic.
分支	岩石学地质学的一个fen1zhi1，研究岩石的起源、成分、结构和演变	The branch of geology that deals with the origin, composition, structure, and alteration of rocks.
商议	工资问题可shang1yi4解决.	The salary is negotiable.
党派	你属于哪一dang3pai4？	What party do you belong to?
钱币	伪钞钱，尤其指伪造的qian2bi4	Money, especially counterfeit money.
论点	律师的lun4dian3所依据的前提是，人们在没有被证明有罪之前都是无罪的。	The lawyer based his argument on the premise that people are innocent until they are proved to be guilty.
乐曲	yue4qu3接近高潮。	The music approached a climax.
物理学	约翰攻读wu4li3xue2。	John reads up on physics.
胡来	别hu2lai2, 放规矩点!	Stop farting around and behave yourself!
窃贼	这个侦探反复琢磨想弄明白那个qie4zei2是怎样逃跑的。	The detective tried to reason out how the thief had escaped.
专横	他那zhuan1heng4的口气激怒了大家。	His peremptory tone irritated everybody.
版面	一页ban3mian4为在一面印刷的ban3mian4设置	The type set for printing one side of a leaf.
助教	zhu4jiao4学校中的助理教员	An assistant teacher in a school.
热切	为了她的缘故，也为了约翰，我re4qie4地希望她能被找到。	For her sake, as well as for John's, I hoped fervently that she might still be found.
资料库	我的祖母是我们家史的zi1liao4ku4.	My grandmother is a mine of information about our family's history.
作画	我开始zuo4hua4，仅仅是最近的事情。	It is only recently that I started painting.
起先	我所问的那个家伙qi3xian1一声也不响，上下打量我，注意到我衣衫褴褛，然后他说：“稍等一会儿。”	The fellow I spoke to made no answer at first, looked me up and down, noticed that I was almost in rags, then said,"" Just a minute.""
跟不上	在那个班里我gen1bu5shang4。	I was out of my depth in that class.
山脊	豚脊丘，陡峻的shan1ji3由于对高斜层破碎山背的侵蚀而形成的陡峭的山背	A sharp ridge with steeply sloping sides, produced by erosion of the broken edges of highly tilted strata.
叛国罪	卖国者，叛徒背叛某人的祖国、事业或辜负信任的人，尤指犯pan4guo2zui4的人	One who betrays one's country, a cause, or a trust, especially one who commits treason.
害虫	蝗虫是一种hai4chong2。	A locust is a kind of destructive insect.
难以忍受	nan2yi3ren3shou4的独裁统治	Oppressive, dictatorial control.
编制	我们必须让警察人数达到（全部）bian1zhi4所需的数量.	We must bring the police force up to (full) strength.
遮盖	这个洞被帆布zhe1gai4住了.	The hole was covered (over) with canvas.
不一	专家们对该计划的可行性意见bu4yi1。	Experts were divided on the feasibility of the project.
连衣裙	她穿著黑色lian2yi1qun2, 在这种欢乐的场合未免太素了.	Her plain black dress was too severe for such a cheerful occasion.
定价	这些货物ding4jia4过高.	These goods are priced too high.
逃学	这三个学生又tao2xue2了。	These three students played truant again.
劝告	他不听母亲的quan4gao4，参加了那次聚会。	He disobeyed his mother and went to the party.
客机	ke4ji1在两万英尺的高度飞行。	The airliner flew at an altitude of 20000ft.
课外	他对学校ke4wai4活动一点也不积极。	He doesn't take an active part in many school activities.
渣滓	必须对那些专在足球比赛时打架的社会zha1zi3严加惩处！	These scum who fight at the football matches must be severely dealt with!
聘用	我们不想pin4yong4没有经验的工人。	We don't want to hire inexperienced worker.
命题	模态逻辑ming4ti2的限制条件，建立在其内容的肯定或否定其可能性，不可能性，偶然性或必然性基础之上	The classification of propositions on the basis of whether they assert or deny the possibility, impossibility, contingency, or necessity of their content.
病院	人生是一所bing4yuan4，每一个住院患者都一心想换自己的床。	Life is a hospital in which every patient is possessed by the desire to change his bed.
花盆	我把一棵花种到了新买的hua1pen2里。	I potted up a flower in the newly bought flowerpot.
深信不疑	信念对真理、事实或某物的正确性在思想上接受或shen1xin4bu4yi2	Mental acceptance of and conviction in the truth, actuality, or validity of something.
身分	没有确定窃贼shen1fen4的线索.	There is no clue to the identity of the thief.
间隙	齿隙两齿之间的jian4xi4或空隙	A gap or space between two teeth.
饥荒	请为ji1huang5账款慷慨捐赠。	Please give generously to famine relief.
年迈	每个星期五下班后，他去看望nian2mai4的父母。	He comes to visit his aged parents after work on every Friday.
应验	我所猜测的都ying4yan4了.	I was right in my conjectures.
生物学	他仍然钻研他的sheng1wu4xue2。	He still worked at his biology.
晶体	水合物结晶中有一定比例水分子成分的固体化合物，其中水分子与jing1ti3的含量为一固定比例	A solid compound containing water molecules combined in a definite ratio as an integral part of the crystal.
暴跌	一有贬值的消息，股票价格就bao4die1了。	Share price plummet or plunge on the news of the devaluation.
哥伦布	据说Ge1lun2bu4于1492年发现了美洲。	Columbus is said to have discovered America in 1492.
为伍	她情愿玩玩蜜蜂也不愿与愚人wei2wu3。	She will rather fool with a bee than being with a fool.
雌性	由喙部为红色这一特点可以辨认出其为雄性（以区别於ci2xing4）.	The male is distinguished (from the female) by its red beak.
患病	在她huan4bing4期间, 她的律师一直代理她的业务.	During her illness her solicitor has been acting for her in her business affairs.
渔船	港湾里有许多yu2chuan2。	There are some fishing vessels in the harbor.
免除	让我们mian3chu2礼节。	Let us avoid the etiquette.
水域	海洋是广大的shui3yu4。	The oceans are large bodies of water.
遵照	他zun1zhao4医生的劝告而行。	He acted on his doctor's advice.
爱丁堡	Ai4ding1bao3在伦敦北面很远的地方。	Edinburgh is a long way north of London.
失职	公司仅在雇员严重shi1zhi2的情形下才予以解雇.	The company only dismisses its employees in cases of gross misconduct.
归结	增加税收gui1jie2起来将造成很多困难.	The tax increases will, in the aggregate, cause much hardship.
付钱	我一文不名，因此不能fu4qian2给你。	I haven't a bean, so I can't pay you.
播音	新闻广播员正在为八点钟的bo1yin1节目作好准备。	The news announcer is standing by for the broadcast program at8.
平地	我对不公ping2di4被解雇表示愤慨。	I expressed my indignation at being unfairly dismissed.
末端	当顺序写操作超出文件原长度时，在文件mo4duan1另分配给该文件的空间量。	The amount of space to be allocated at the end of a file each time a sequential write exceeds the allocated length of the file.
乐章	最后yue4zhang1的高潮慢慢发展到了顶点。以重复主旋律而告终。	The crescendo in the last movement leads up to a grand climax and a repeat of the main theme.
小船	xiao3chuan2一种小划艇，尤指从船到岸渡运供应品	A small rowboat, especially one used to ferry supplies from ship to shore.
下一代	我们应该对xia4yi1dai4负责。	We should be responsible for the generation as yet unborn.
未能	关於日期[什么时候见面], 我们wei4neng2取得一致意见.	We couldn't agree on a date/when to meet.
大树	da4shu4小树都已长出嫩芽.	The trees and hedgerows are in bud.
染色	对比ran3se4剂，对照ran3se4剂一种对比颜色的ran3se4剂，用来染制主ran3se4剂染后显不出的显微术标本成分	A stain of a contrasting color used to color the components in a microscopic specimen that are not made visible by the principal stain.
几点	要使这份报告包括最新资料，我仅有ji3 dian3事实需补充。	I have only a few additional facts to add to bring the report up to date.
院校	这所中学附属于一所师范yuan4xiao4。	This middle school is attached to a teachers' college.
乘机	只因为莫尔不能为自己辨护，米尔便cheng2ji1攻击他，这是不公正的。	It was unfair for Mill to attack More just because the latter could not answer( him) back.
照例	不用说他zhao4li4来得很晚。	Needless to say, he came late as usual.
真实性	该报告毫无zhen1shi2xing4。	There is not a vestige of truth in the report.
行军	由重重的行走或xing2jun1产生的声音	The sound produced by heavy walking or marching.
接班人	这位即将退休的矿工把风钻移交给他的jie1ban1ren2。	The retiring miner delivered his pneumatic drill over to his successor.
什锦	这盘菜配有shi2jin3泡菜.	The dish was accompanied by a variety of pickles.
有种	他对生活you3zhong3成熟的看法。	He has a mellow attitude to life.
惊异	我对于这个价格既没有表示jing1yi4，也没想接受。	I neither expressed surprise at the price nor attempted to accept it.
大发雷霆	不要因为我说你的头发是姜黄色就da4 fa1 lei2ting2－你也知道事实就是这样。	Don't get into a wax because I said you hair is ginger-you know that it is.
撞倒	他故意把那个老人zhuang4dao3。	He knocked the old man down on purpose.
教派	摩门jiao4pai4是1830年在美国成立的一个宗教团体。	Mormons are a religious group founded in USA in 1830.
猛地	她meng3de5拉好窗帘。	She twitched the curtain into place.
全景	镜头慢慢移动拍摄房间quan2jing3.	The shot panned slowly across the room.
西南部	美国xi1nan2bu4的低矮的砖坯建筑物	The low, brick-and-adobe architecture of the Southwest.
真菌	霉和蘑菇都是zhen1jun1。	Mildew and mushrooms are fungi.
塞满	他把口袋都sai1man3了糖果。	He crammed as much candy into his pockets as they would hold.
会诊	医生们进行hui4zhen3，决定是否需要动手术。	The doctors held a consultation to decide whether an operation was necessary.
加紧	他来看他们是不是在尽量jia1jin3进行这项工作。	He came to see whether they were doing all they could to rush the work.
开办	他们决定kai1ban4一家合作社。	They decided to set up a cooperative.
便是	这位著名的戏剧演员即bian4shi4在死后，也仍受到人们的喜爱。	This famous comic actor is loved by the people even after his death.
代数	学习dai4shu4很容易。	It's easy to learn algebra.
直立	边缘装饰在桌子顶部、托盘或书架边缘处的zhi2li4的装饰品或造型	A decorative upright trimming or molding along the edge of a table top, tray, or shelf.
搅乱	请把这些卡片按次序放好，别把它们jiao3luan4了。	Please keep the cards in sequence; don't mix them up.
铁道	巡道工，护路员受雇保养或巡查tie3dao4的工人	A worker employed to maintain or inspect railroad tracks.
冷饮	喝一杯茶吧－－除非你想喝leng3yin3。	Have a cup of tea unless you'd prefer a cold drink.
绕过	我们以高速度rao4guo4拐角.	We rounded the corner at high speed.
必修	那时英语是唯一bi4xiu1的外国语。	English was the only foreign language required.
大步	汤姆必须迈da4bu4才能跟上他的父亲。	Tom has to take long steps to keep pace with his father.
自治区	纽卡斯尔英格兰中西部的一个市级zi4zhi4qu1，位于斯图克西南偏南。拥有制砖业、制瓦业和纺织服装工业。人口74，200	A municipal borough of west-central England south-southwest of Stoke. It has brick, tile, and clothing industries. Population, 74,200.
驱散	出动了警察将集会qu1san4.	Police were called in to break up the meeting.
分隔	英吉利海峡把英法两国fen1ge2开来.	The English Channel divides England from France.
徒劳无功	对程序进行修改是tu2lao2-wu2gong1的.	Revising the procedure was an entirely profitless exercise.
想像力	他的小说开拓了xiang3xiang4li4新天地。	His stories opened up new worlds of the imagination.
刀刃	dao1ren4把他的腿划破了。	The blade slashed his leg open.
电灯	我得在黑暗中摸索著找dian4deng1开关.	I had to feel about in the dark for the light switch.
受训	shou4xun4的突击队员要参加令人筋疲力尽的突击课程.	Trainee commandos are put through an exhausting assault course.
灌木丛	这个淘气的孩子把书藏在了guan4mu4cong2里。	The naughty boy hid the books in the shrub.
化学反应	两性的具有酸和碱的特征的，既能作为酸又能作为碱进行hua4xue2 fan3ying4的	Having the characteristics of an acid and a base and capable of reacting chemically either as an acid or a base.
器具	工具用于协助工作的qi4ju4	An implement used to facilitate work.
用以	正如人类发现的许多事物一样, 原子能既可用来为善, 也可yong4yi3作恶.	Like many discoveries, atomic power can be used for good or evil.
输送	通过管道把热水从锅炉shu1song4到散热器里.	Pipes convey hot water from the boiler to the radiators.
进修	我得出去jin4xiu1一个星期——经理今天早晨突然向我宣布此事。	I've got to go away for a week on a training course-the manager sprang it on me this morning.
算术	我的历史成绩不错, 但suan4shu4不太好.	I'm good at history but not so hot at arithmetic.
调味料	这种橙汁饮品不含人工tiao2wei4liao4.	This orange drink contains no artificial flavourings.
步子	他加快了bu4zi5。	He quickened up his pace.
重型	这家石油公司将用船运出输油管道和zhong4xing2设备。	The oil company will ship out piping and heavy equipment.
站岗	看守在深夜仍在zhan4gang3。	The guards are still on watch at midnight.
肉眼	我们不能用rou4yan3看到细菌。	We can not see bacillus with eyes.
免税	携带的mian3shui4酒不得超过八升。	You are restricted to eight liters of duty-free wine.
冷酷无情	不要被他那副讨人喜欢的外表所迷惑, 其实他leng3ku4wu2qing2.	Don't be taken in by his charming manner; he's completely ruthless.
送行	她兴高采烈地为他song4xing2。	She sent him off in high spirits.
喀	桨ka1吧一声断了.	The oar broke with a snap.
死讯	琼斯夫人丈夫的si3xun4把她吓蒙了。	Her husband's death knocked Mrs.Jones off her feet.
钮	遇火灾时按下此niu3。	Press this button in case of fire.
暴行	我们永远都不应该忘记日本侵略者犯下的bao4xing2。	We should never forget the outrage committed by the Japanese invaders.
变量	这是一个应该避免使用的非正式术语。该术语有时用于一种逻辑元件，这种逻辑元件可以实现特定的功能或在bian4liang4之间提供链接。	An improper term to be avoided. This term is sometimes used to designate a logic element which performs a specific function or provides a linkage between variables.
既定	我不管你个人是怎么想的，但与公司顾客谈生意时，你必须遵循我们的ji4ding4方针。	I don't care what your personal views are; when talking to this company's clients you must follow the party line.
推行	摄政者在他的国家tui1xing2了一套先进的制度。	The regent carried out an advanced system in his country.
加固	枝肋哥特式拱顶上的一种用于jia1gu4的肋，连接主肋上的交点或凸饰	A reinforcing rib used in Gothic vaulting to connect the intersections and bosses of the primary ribs.
晚霞	红红的wan3xia2是晴天的预兆。	A red sunset signifies fine weather.
据点	被击败的军队偷偷潜回到它在山里的ju4dian3里。	The defeat army slinked back to its stronghold in the mountain.
盖上	救护车发动机罩gai4shang5标有逆序反向字母的AMBULANCE字样.	Ambulances have `AMBULANCE' printed in reverse on their bonnets.
餐车	can1che1饭店一种小型的通常具有柜台和座位的廉价的餐馆，并设计在类似于can1che1的屋子中	A small, usually inexpensive restaurant with a long counter and booths and housed in a building designed to resemble a dining car.
市内	为了安全起见，在shi4nei4开车时速不要超过三十公里。	For safety's sake, don't drive more than 30 kilometers per hour in the city.
瞧不起	美国来的人他都qiao2bu5qi3。	He's disdainful of anyone from the USA.
下级	高级军官和xia4ji2军官的房间是分著的.	There are separate rooms for senior and junior officers.
幻灯片	他演讲中配上huan4deng1pian4, 比其他演讲人更吸引听众.	He upstaged the other speakers by illustrating his talk with slides.
溢出	大雨过后，下水道yi4chu1水来。	The drains overflowed after the heavy rain.
自制力	他那次发作是他缺乏zi4zhi4li4的典型事例.	That outburst was a typical example of his lack of self-control.
拙劣	这次审判是对公正的一次zhuo1lie4的模拟	The trial was a parody of justice.
摇摆不定	他的政治观点在两个极端之间yao2bai3bu4ding4.	He oscillates between political extremes.
独居	他晚年du2ju1，从不欢迎来访者。	In the latter years of his life he lived alone and never welcomed visitors.
姜汁	我的一个同事喜欢吃jiang1zhi1饼干。	One of my colleagues likes to eat gingerbread nut.
定量	在干旱时期ding4liang4供应水	Rationing water during the drought.
杂质	食物中有一些za2zhi4。	There are some impurities in food.
排水	这沙土地利於pai2shui3, 适於种植块根作物.	This gravelly soil is well drained and good for growing root crops.
镰刀	旗帜上有lian2dao1的图案。	There is a picture of the sickle on the flag.
会考	要用功，那么你才hui4kao3及格。	Study hard, and you'll pass the exam.
年月	在那黑暗的nian2yue4，他受到种种歧视。	He suffered all kinds of discrimination in those dark days.
曲调	他演奏的qu3diao4全错了.	He played the tune all wrong.
先天	xian1tian1论，天性论xian1tian1论，大脑不能从外界信息中产生想法	The doctrine that the mind produces ideas that are not derived from external sources.
源源不断	投诉信件yuan2yuan2bu4duan4地寄到（总部）.	Letters of complaint poured in (to head office).
不合	该委员会的建立bu4he2规定, 因而没有合法的权力.	The committee had been improperly constituted, and therefore had no legal power.
军事基地	无通行证者不得擅入jun1shi4 ji1di4.	You cannot enter a military base without a permit.
素食者	对於su4shi2zhe3来说, 豆类食物是蛋白质的理想来源.	Pulses are a good source of protein for vegetarians.
议题	和平是大会的首要yi4ti2。	Peace was the dominant theme of the conference.
纸币	我在银行拿十块钱的zhi3bi4兑换了零钱，因为我需要一些硬币投入自动售票机。	I changed a ten-yuan note at the bank, because I needed some coins for the ticket machine.
不景气	冬季贸易bu4 jing3qi4.	Trade is slack in winter.
一品	他一口气喝了yi1pin3脱牛奶.	He drank a pint of milk in one go.
喜讯	xi3xun4传遍了祖国的每个角落。	The good news spread to every corner of the country.
列队	全营以连为单位在军营广场上lie4dui4.	The battalion formed up by companies on the barrack square.
守法	她是个shou3fa3的公民。	She is a lawful citizen.
双腿	我的shuang1tui3完全失去了知觉.	I've lost all feeling in my legs.
锐利	能看透黑暗的rui4li4眼睛	Keen eyes that penetrate the darkness.
剧团	她在ju4tuan2工作。	She works in a theatrical company.
论战	争论演变成了公开的lun4zhan4。	The argument boiled over into open war.
击退	我们对入侵之敌采取牵制的方针, 以备组织好兵力将之ji1tui4.	Until we'd built up sufficient forces to drive the invaders back, we pursued a policy of containment.
布雷	钱bu4lei2绸一种由白线穿过彩色纵向线的精细轻织物	A fine, lightweight fabric woven with white threads across a colored warp.
卫队	皇家园林wei4dui4保护皇家森林和公园的看守者	The keeper of a royal forest or park.
法郎	这些就是：一些法国fa3lang2，瑞士fa3lang2，美圆和一些荷兰盾。	Here it is, some French francs, Swiss francs, American dollars and a few Dutch guilders.
下月	两国总理的会谈将于xia4yue4举行。	The talks between the two premiers will be held next month.
住宅区	我们住在很富裕的zhu4zhai2qu1.	We live in a rather rich neighbourhood.
妒嫉	他那许多du4ji2的言行妨害了他们的婚姻生活。	His many little jealousies harmed their marriage.
特许	私商，无照营业者侵犯贸易垄断企业的人，例如在有te4xu3权公司的经营范围内从事未经许可的贸易活动	One that trespasses on a trade monopoly, as by conducting unauthorized trade in an area designated to a chartered company.
僵局	我们只能做些较小的让步，但这就可能打破jiang1ju2。	We can only make minor concessions, but it might break the deadlock.
不予	绝大部分党员对极端分子bu4yu3理睬.	The lunatic fringe is/are ignored by most members of the party.
横梁	犁一种农具，由在一根heng2liang2端部的厚重的刃构成，通常系在一组牵引它的牲畜或机动车上，用来破碎土块并耕出槽沟从而为播种做好准备	A farm implement consisting of a heavy blade at the end of a beam, usually hitched to a draft team or motor vehicle and used for breaking up soil and cutting furrows in preparation for sowing.
爆炸物	火药是一种bao4zha4wu4。	Gunpowder is an explosive.
重物	牛和其它牵引zhong4wu4的动物	Oxen and other draft animals.
溶液	硫酸铜rong2ye4是什么颜色？	What color is copper sulfate solution?
嘉奖	数名士兵因英勇而受jia1jiang3。	Several soldiers were decorated for bravery.
也罢	纵使大众也曾偏向正途ye3ba4，那总是出于错误的原因。	If the multitude ever deviate into the right, it is always for the wrong reason.
整整齐齐	一个英国人，尽管只有他一个人，也会独个儿排成zheng3zheng3qi2qi2的一队。	An Englishman, even if he is alone, forms an orderly queue of one.
机动车	ji1dong4che1协会劝告开车的人暂时不要使用公路。	Motoring organization is urging driver not to travel by road if possible.
赐福	愿主ci4fu2于你们大家。	The blessing of the Lord be upon you all.
分区	管辖区城市或城镇的fen1qu1或地区，由警察机构的特定单位对其进行管辖或巡逻	A subdivision or district of a city or town under the jurisdiction of or patrolled by a specific unit of its police force.
民兵	他正在这样干时被一位min2bing1撞见了。	A militiaman surprised him in the act.
受益匪浅	广泛的阅读使我shou4yi4 fei3qian3。	I have benefited a lot from extensive reading.
投标	他们有没有tou2biao1争取承包合同？	Have they put in a bid for the contract?
才智	他是当代最有cai2zhi4的人.	He is one of the greatest minds of the age.
细长	桦树有光滑的皮和xi4chang2的枝。	The birch has smooth bark and slender branches.
外交官	他们不得不赎回被绑架的wai4jiao1guan1。	They had to ransom the kidnapped diplomat.
不平	卡尔整天带着一副愤恨bu4ping2的样子，好像大家都有意怠慢或伤害他。	Carl was a man with a chip on his shoulder. Everyone seemed in a conspiracy to slight or injure him.
抖动	蛾子dou3dong4著翅膀.	The moth quivered its wings.
施行	联体，并体天生的或手术shi1xing2的通常进行血液交换的两器官的联合，比如在连体婴的发育或某种嫁接手术中	The natural or surgical union of anatomical parts of two organisms, usually involving exchange of blood, as in the development of Siamese twins or in certain transplant operations.
纸板	有人指定拉姆奇夫人把钱装在一只纸盒子里，并把zhi3ban3盒放在她的门外边。	Mrs Ramsay was instructed to place the money in a cardboard box and to leave it outside her door.
佐料	辣味的，开胃的尝起来辛辣但美味的；zuo3liao4多的	Pleasantly pungent or tart in taste; spicy.
石板	彩色平板印刷术用一系列shi2ban3或锌板做平板来印刷彩画的技术或过程	The art or process of printing color pictures from a series of stone or zinc plates by lithography.
右翼	派遣了一些士兵守卫you4yi4.	A number of men were detached to guard the right flank.
婚事	他的父母决不会答应这门hun1shi4。	Her parents will never take acquiescence of such a marriage.
王室	这份文件上盖有wang2shi4印章。	This document carries the royal seal.
合情合理	他解释得听起来he2qing2 he2li3.	His explanation sounds reasonable.
迫击炮	受重型pai3ji1pao4火力威胁的敌军阵地；受步枪火力的袭击	Subjected enemy positions to heavy mortar fire; struck by rifle fire.
绝非	要满足每一个人jue2fei1易事。	It is by no means easy to satisfy everyone.
大祸	导弹有极微小的偏斜也可能酿出da4huo4.	The smallest deflection of the missile could bring disaster.
负债	他fu4zhai4总数超过200英镑.	He has debts totalling more than 200.
交响乐	在jiao1xiang3yue4曲的创作上，他堪称技艺大师。	In symphonic writing he is the master craftsman.
绝伦	那个英雄英勇jue2lun2。	The hero was dauntless.
粮草	兵马未动, liang2cao3先行。	Food and fodder should go ahead of troops and horses.
落选	执政党在补缺选举中luo4xuan3，是一极大挫折。	Defeat in the by-election is a major set-back to the ruling party.
不能不	我bu4neng2bu4可怜他。	I cannot but pity him.
主修	我的zhu3xiu1科目是法语。	My major is French.
拨款	政府正为处理失业问题的另一计画bo1kuan3.	The government is funding another unemployment scheme.
孪生	这对luan2sheng1子像得使人无法分辨。	The twins were so much alike that it was impossible to distinguish one from the other.
小牛	向女神祭献了一头牺牲xiao3niu2.	A calf was offered up as a sacrifice to the goddess.
少有	这家公司的主要问题是缺shao3you3技术的人员。	The company's main problem is the shortage of skilled personnel.
盆子	这个pen2zi5是镀金金属的，所以不太值钱。	This basin is only plate so it's not very valuable.
线上	指南针用于确定地理方向的设备，通常包括一个或多个水平安装或悬挂的磁针，可在枢轴上自由活动直到与地球磁场在一条xian4shang4	A device used to determine geographic direction, usually consisting of a magnetic needle or needles horizontally mounted or suspended and free to pivot until aligned with the magnetic field of Earth.
空话	听他那没完没了的连篇kong1hua4对我的耐心真是一大考验。	Listening to his continuous stream of empty chatter really tested my patience.
经济学家	这位著名的jing1ji4xue2jia1给我们做了一次演讲。	The famous economist gave us a speech.
横跨	heng2kua4结构，桥，渡口heng2kua4或横渡的地方或使用的工具	A place at which or the means by which a crossing is made.
破口大骂	那司机po4kou3 da4ma4挡他的路的行人.	The driver was slanging a pedestrian who had got in his way.
一望无际	草原向四周伸展, yi1wang4-wu2ji4.	The prairies stretch on all sides as far as the eye can see.
吉普车	一辆旧ji2pu3che1沿路迤逦而来。	An old jeep is putter along the road.
里根	Li3gen1先生将近２兆联邦及贸易负债（亦即每户３万元）将是经济成长的绊脚石。	Mr.Reagan's nearly$2 trillion in Federal and trade debt(or$30, 000 per family) will be a ball and chain around the neck of economic growth.
沙特阿拉伯	如果一项促进和平的安排开始进行，Sha1te4 A1la1bo2将直接参与有关航运及污染等地区性问题的多边谈判。	If a peace process got under way, Saudi Arabia would participate directly in multilateral talks about such problems of regional concern as shipping and pollution.
窟窿	冰山把那船撞出了ku1long5.	The ship was holed by an iceberg.
严刑	总之，唯有当yan2xing2峻罚加之于违法之徒时，才能维持社会安定。	To sum up, only when strict punishment can be imposed on the lawless, can social stability be maintained.
用法	｀他肺都气炸了,＇一句中的｀炸＇字是比喻yong4fa3.	`He exploded with rage' shows a figurative use of the verb `to explode'.
如画	他画了海湾里一个风景ru2hua4的渔村。	He painted the picturesque fishing village in the bay.
德里	该机在飞往De2li3的途中遭到劫持.	The plane was highjacked while on a flight to Delhi.
宜人	大体上说，这里的气候还是很yi2ren2的，夏天不太热，冬天也不太冷。	On the whole, the climate here is quite pleasant, neither too hot in summer nor too cold in winter.
调换	请遵守我们的协议，给我们diao4huan4损坏的货物。	Please honor our arrangement by exchanging the damaged goods.
侵占	qin1zhan4，泛滥，超过限度	An act of overrunning.
长征	红军chang2zheng1时走了二万五千里。	The Red Army covered25000 li on the Long March.
熨斗	yun4dou3太热了, 你会把衣服烫焦的.	The iron's too hot, you'll singe the dress.
烟熏	yan1xun1得我眼睛发痛.	The smoke irritates my eyes.
个中	她向一ge4zhong1国教员学习英语。	She learned English from a Chinese teacher.
检举	近来有几起毒品走私活动被jian3ju3立案.	There have been several successful prosecutions for drug smuggling recently.
蝌蚪	ke1dou3是青蛙的幼年形态。	Tadpoles are the infancy form of frogs.
定向	ding4xiang4与罗盘所指相关的地点或位置	Location or position relative to the points of the compass.
弄脏	她的围巾被油nong4zang1了。	Her kerchief is dirty with oil.
常春藤	chang2chun1teng2沿着墙壁蔓延。	Ivy crept along the walls.
笔试	根据规定，申请者一律需经bi3shi4。	It is laid down that all applicant must sit a write exam.
资本家	那个政权一直是受到若干垄断zi1ben3jia1的支持而维持着的。	The regime has been propped up by several monopoly capitalists.
快跑	我kuai4pao3为的是要赶上火车。	I run fast so that I may catch the train.
供水	他们使河流改道以便向城市gong1shui3。	They diverted the river to supply water to the town.
负伤	他因fu4shang1而退役.	He was invalided out of the army because of the wounds he received.
油轮	you2lun2沉没了，石油污染了海面。	The tanker sank and the oil polluted the sea.
船头	一艘拖轮牵引着那条船的chuan2tou2把它转了个方向。	A tug pulled the bow of the ship round.
易于	健谈的倾向于yi4yu2沟通的；爱说话的	Inclined to communicate readily; talkative.
耕	geng1者正在geng1田。	The cultivator is furrowing land.
远东	集团的大部分利润是由Yuan3dong1的子公司缴纳。	Most of the group profit is contributed by the subsidiary in the far east.
劳动者	在合作社中, 利润是在全体lao2dong4zhe3中进行分配的.	In a co-operative profits are distributed among the work-force.
头子	这些被警察抓住的犯罪分子只是些小鱼，他们的tou2zi5却跑掉了。	These criminals arrested by the police are only minnows, their leader has escaped.
停住	公共汽车猛然刹车ting2zhu5了。	The bus jerked to a stop.
红线	这张地图上的hong2xian4代表铁路。	The red lines on the map represent railways.
敌机	di2ji1在地面滑行时机首着地翻身撞毁了。	The enemy plane nosed over and was damaged.
酿	整件事niang4成了激烈的争吵.	The whole thing turned into a bitter quarrel.
四面八方	风从si4mian4-ba1fang1吹来.	The wind blew from all quarters.
筛	稻子经过收割，shai1清和去壳以后才出售。	Rice is gathered, cleaned and hulled before being sold.
料子	做田径服需要用弹性强的liao4zi5。	For tracksuits you need material with plenty of stretch.
家禽	jia1qin2的种类很多。	There are many kinds of fowl.
机翼	ji1yi4显出有金属疲劳的现象.	The aeroplane wing showed signs of metal fatigue.
小节	哼一哼你喜爱的曲子的开头几个xiao3jie2.	Hum the opening bars of your favourite tune.
库房	不过现在它们已经被改建，用作ku4fang2或粮仓了。	But now they have been adapted for use as storehouses or granaries.
支队	很多队员渐渐变得动作迟缓了。这zhi1dui4所需的是一些新鲜血液。	Many of the players are getting sluggish and what this team needs is some fresh blood.
音节	简短的旋律一种简短的旋律，和着同一种调子演唱或吟诵一组yin1jie2和歌词	A short, simple melody in which a number of syllables or words are sung on or intoned to the same note.
进出口	jin4-chu1kou3的高关税是国际贸易的障碍。	Heavy duties on imports and exports are a barrier to international trade.
喜鹊	xi3que4“嘁嘁喳喳”叫。	A magpie chatters.
西北部	这座城市位于加拿大的xi1bei3bu4。	The city is located in the northwest part of Canada.
灵巧	那麽说是你把金属线穿过那个小孔的了, 真ling2qiao3!	So you fitted that wire through that little hole there: that's very ingenious!
加利福尼亚州	她在西部（如Jia1li4fu2ni2ya4zhou1）到现在已住了十年了.	She's lived in the West (eg California) for ten years now.
矿井	平峒通往kuang4jing3的几乎水平的入口	An almost horizontal entrance to a mine.
宇宙飞船	今年, 他们已发射了数艘yu3zhou4 fei1chuan2。	They have sent up several spaceships this year.
一个个	他们yi1ge4ge4都跑了, 把我撇下了!	Every man jack of them ran off and left me!
剧作家	这个ju4zuo4jia1受到了本国人民的尊敬。	The dramatist was respected by people in his country.
分给	她把钱均fen1gei3两个孩子.	She portioned out the money equally between both children.
湿透	他浑身shi1tou4。	He was every inch drenched.
四方	砂浆托板一种用来托起和盛放石造物浆泥的有柄si4fang1板	A square board with a handle used for holding and carrying masonry mortar.
轻便	她和母亲坐着qing1bian4双轮马车去购物。	She and her mother got on the gig to go shopping.
死后	母亲si3hou4，我收到许多安慰信。	I got many letters of consolation when my mother died.
按下	他轻轻an4xia5手柄。	He pressed lightly on the handle.
省份	稻子是大多数南方sheng3fen4的主要作物。	Rice is the chief crop in most southern provinces.
开演	电影一kai1yan3我就知道不会喜欢这部电影.	I knew early on (in the film) that I wasn't going to enjoy it.
长凳	他们俩在公园的chang2deng4上拥抱亲吻。	The two of them were necking on a park bench.
弧线	太阳看起来在天空以hu2xian4运行。	The sun appears to move in an arc across the sky.
去取	她探身qu4qu3放在餐桌对面的黄油。	She stretched across the table for the butter.
寄出	我把那封信挂号ji4chu1了，因为里面有钱。	I registered the letter because it contain some money.
空余	他把kong4yu2时间都用在园艺上了, 没有任何其他爱好.	He spent his spare time gardening, to the exclusion of all other interests.
零碎	让我把我的ling2sui4东西收拾起来。	Let me get my bits and pieces together.
风浪	那只船正与feng1lang4搏斗。	The ship is combating the wind and waves.
渡船	du4chuan2於一点钟开往法国.	The ferry leaves for France at one o'clock.
正统	基本原理一个学科、学派或一门科学的zheng4tong3的、起指导作用的原则	The formal, guiding principles of a discipline, school, or science.
急急忙忙	他ji2ji2mang2mang2到办公室去了.	He hastened (away) to the office.
获准	他huo4zhun3可以不去听讲。	He was excused from attendance at the lecture.
锈	xiu4与酸都是腐蚀性的。	Rust and acids are corrosive.
绞	罪犯被推上jiao3架吊死。	The criminals were hanged on the gibbet.
西面	这场雨是从xi1mian4来的.	The rain is coming from the west.
传开	这位影星抵达该城市的消息一chuan2kai1，大批的请柬雪片似的向她飞来。	Invitations showered on the film star as soon as her arrival in the city was known.
扬起	我们走时车子yang2qi3了一阵尘土。	The car raised quite a dust as we drove off.
马戏	ma3xi4表演非常吸引人.	The fascinations of the circus are endless.
软膏	把这种ruan3gao1搽在皮肤上，让它渗进去。	Rub the cream on your skin and let it sink in.
受阻	我们因交通堵塞而shou4zu3一个小时.	We were stuck in a traffic jam for an hour.
总有	这次他欺骗了我, 但zong3you3一天我会报复他的。	He tricked me this time but I'll get back at him one day.
多事	我要发火了，你为何瞒我这么duo1shi4？	I shall lose my temper. Why do you hide so much from me?
阿拉伯语	他显示了对A1la1bo2yu3的精通。	He demonstrated a mastery of Arabic.
私有	（固定路线的）运输系统通常有固定路线的公有或si1you3贷运或客运系统，如船运、空运或汽运	A passenger or cargo system of public or private transportation, as by ship, aircraft, or bus, usually over a definite route.
洞口	一只老鼠从黑暗的dong4kou3跑出。	A mouse ran out from the dark orifice of the cave.
所剩无几	选举之后，该党的党员suo3 sheng4 wu2 ji3了。	After the election the party was reduced to a rump.
粗野	他这样cu1ye3，我真想揍他。	I'd a good mind to smack him for being so rude!
各国	欧洲进一步统一的计划可以尚未定案，可是从赫尔辛基到罗马的人在最近几星期得到一个时常令人痛苦的教训：他们ge4guo2的经济已经如何地牵扯在一起了。	Europe's plans for further unification may be up in the air, but people from Helsinki to Rome have been learning an often painful lesson in recent weeks about how entwined their economies have already become.
所属	新牧师访问了他教堂suo3shu3的各个家庭的每个成员，以便更好地了解他们。	The new minister called on each of the families of his church in order to become better acquainted with them.
养分	土壤中的yang3fen4能促进植物生长.	The nutrient in the soil acts as a stimulus to growth/to make the plants grow.
间歇	一连串的持续跳动以数量短促而突然的变化为特征的一系列jian4xie1性出现	Any of a series of intermittent occurrences characterized by a brief, sudden change in a quantity.
背离	偏离的，bei4li2惯例的	Departing from convention.
冒失	那个mao4shi5的新秘书兴冲冲地蹦跳到我跟前，问我是否在这里工作。	That cheeky new secretary just pranced up to me and asked if I worked here!
寒酸	品质低劣的；han2suan1的	Of inferior quality; shabby.
汁液	他倒了些zhi1ye4以防烤干。	He bastes juices to keep it moist during cooking.
平整	我们需要一台挖掘机来ping2zheng3土地。	We need a mechanical digger to level the ground.
税务局	shui4wu4ju2负责徵收所得税.	The Inland Revenue is responsible for collecting income tax.
公用	那城市有自己的gong1yong4图书馆和公园。	The town has its own public library and public gardens.
目不转睛	她紧紧地、 mu4 bu4 zhuan3 jing1地、 好奇地...注视著他.	She regarded him closely, intently, curiously, etc.
保险丝	电灯灭了, 因线路上用电器超负荷把bao3xian3si1烧断了.	The lights fused because the system was overloaded with electrical appliances.
繁重	他在fan2zhong4工作的压力之下累坏了。	He broke under the strain of heavy work.
愤慨	他们对他们的老师感到强烈fen4kai3。	They felt strong indignation against their teacher.
谨防	在公共汽车上要jin3fang2扒手。	Please guard against pickpockets on the bus.
不列颠	联合王国由大Bu4lie4dian1和北爱尔兰组成。	The United Kingdom consists of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
玩忽职守	他因为wan2hu1-zhi2shou3而失去工作，罪有应得。	It served him right to lose that job, because he neglected it.
反攻	那天早些时候迫使敌人放弃给我军的阵地现在需要布置起来，对付那必然的fan3gong1。	Positions surrendered to our troops earlier in the day had now to be prepared against the inevitable counter-attack.
大吃	他们开始津津有味地da4chi1起来.	They fell to (eating) with great gusto.
扫射	歹徒们冲进酒吧胡乱sao3she4一通。	The gangster run into the bar and start shooting it up.
逆流	船正在河上ni4liu2而上。	The boat was going up the river.
丑事	新的事实已众所周知, 政府被迫承认处理间谍chou3shi4失当.	As new facts became known, the Government was forced to climb down over its handling of the spy scandal.
自私自利	他们的动机很快就能看出, 完全是zi4si1-zi4li4.	Their motives, as will soon become apparent (ie as you will soon see), are completely selfish.
锅炉	guo1lu2爆炸了。	The boiler blew up.
孩提	我在故乡度过了自己的hai2ti2时代。	I spent my early childhood in my hometown.
票据	piao4ju4交换结算总额piao4ju4交换所中每天进行的交易总额	The total of claims presented daily at a clearing-house.
了当	他们上liao3dang4, 以为我们还没有作好进攻准备.	They were bluffed into believing we were not ready for the attack.
绝种	因为污染严重，许多美丽的鱼类正在面临jue2zhong3。	Many beautiful fish are fast disappearing because of the severe pollution.
品行	如果我后悔什么事情，那很可能是我的良好pin3xing2。	If I repent of anything, it is very likely to be my good behaviour.
死气沉沉	那是一场si3qi4 chen2chen2的演出。	It was a lifeless performance.
缀	我在给蛋糕最后加一点点zhui4。	I'm just putting the finishing touches to the cake.
烂泥	他们须通过齐膝的lan4ni2和堆积物, 磕磕绊绊来到遇难者身旁.	They had to wade knee-deep through mud and debris to reach the victims.
请愿书	他们在qing3yuan4shu1上签名，支持工人的请求。	They signed a petition in support of the workers' demands.
新闻界	部长对此事的处理方法受到xin1wen2jie4的严厉批评。	The minister was crucified by the press for his handling of the affair.
殷勤	他yin1qin2地侍候她。	He danced attendance on her.
创造者	人民是历史的chuang4zao4zhe3。	The people are the makers of history.
颤动	空气似乎随着亮光而chan4dong4。	The air seemed to pulsate with the bright light.
噪声	你在那不停的zao4sheng1中怎麽能工作得下去呀?	How can you continue to work/continue working with all that noise going on?
不休	他这个人做事一不做二bu4xiu1--向慈善事业捐款不捐则已, 一捐就是一大笔.	He's not a man who does things by halves -- either he donates a huge sum to a charity or he gives nothing.
东南部	马尔盖特英国dong1nan2bu4一自治市，位于伦敦的东部。是一个著名的海滨度假胜地，轻工业也较发达。人口121，900	A municipal borough of southeast England east of London. A popular seaside resort, it also has light industries. Population, 121,900.
占地	海洋几乎zhan4di4球表面的四分之三。	The sea covers nearly three-fourths of the world's surface.
皮子	这鞋刚穿时要是有点紧没关系, 这种pi2zi5很有延展性.	Don't worry if the shoes seem a bit tight at first; the leather has plenty of give in it.
分文	我若还清所有欠债就fen1wen2不剩了.	If I pay all my debts I'll have no money left.
器皿	我们所有的玻璃和陶瓷qi4min3都放在柜橱里。	All our glass and china are kept in the cupboard.
信号灯	这辆汽车亮起了危险xin4hao4deng1。	The car had its hazard warning lights on.
香槟酒	他喝著廉价的xiang1bin1jiu3, 样子十分放荡.	He was drinking cheap champagne with a raffish air.
沼泽地	在zhao3ze2di4里，我们受到蚊子的围攻。	In the swamp we were beset by mosquitoes.
配给	每周pei4ji3我们两个鸡蛋。	We were rationed to two eggs a week.
淫秽	这本书中有很多yin2hui4的语言。	There are much obscene languages in this book.
挥动	助人仙女hui1dong4她的魔杖.	The fairy godmother waved her (magic) wand.
刑法	讲课人继续解释说民法与xing2fa3是不同的。	The lecturer continued that civil law was different to criminal law.
皮箱	它是一个中型的灰色绅耐特pi2xiang1。	It is a medium- size samsonite, and it's gray.
选修	她明年xuan3xiu1法语.	She is taking French as an elective next year.
战败	zhan4bai4的消息给小城蒙上了一层忧郁。	The news of defeat cast a gloom over the town.
恒星	每一星系都有无数的heng2xing1.	Each galaxy contains myriads of stars.
贞操	这似乎是一个修女的zhen1cao1誓言。	It seems the vows of chastity belonging to a nun.
招致	这种有倾向性 的说法可能zhao1zhi4强烈的反对.	Such tendentious statements are likely to provoke strong opposition.
和声	音乐学生学习给一个现有的调子配上其他音部，还要学习怎样转成he2sheng1调。	Music students learn how to add other parts to add other parts to a given tune, and how to modulate to a related key.
不法	bu4fa3的违反法律的；非法的	Against the law; illegal.
曼彻斯特	Man4che4si1te4联队在一场友谊比赛中击败了凯尔特队。	Manchester United beat Celtic in a friendly.
游历	这名吟游诗人在全国you2li4，吟唱他自己写的诗歌。	The minstrel travelled about the country singing songs and poems written by him.
填饱	现在该是tian2bao3肚子的时候了。	It's time to satisfy my inner man.
钢琴家	我希望他成为gang1qin2jia1的梦想可以成真。	I hope his dream of becoming a pianist will come true.
不等	这些鱼的重量从3磅到5磅bu4deng3.	These fish vary in weight from 3 lb to 5 lb.
伊斯兰教	他后来改信了Yi1si1lan2jiao4。	He later turned Moslem.
装腔作势	我看够你zhuang1qiang1-zuo4shi4的表现了.	I've had enough of your dramatics.
作法	在英国，一些反对党的领袖是政府成员，有人建议美国也采用类似的zuo4fa3。	In Britain, some opposition party leaders are members of the government, and some say that a similar device should be adopted here.
公尺	顺着铁路走大约100gong1chi3。	Follow the railroad track about100 meter.
农产品	如果放入冰箱的话，这种nong2chan3pin3可以保存更长的时间。我需要一辆经久耐用的汽车	Produce lasts longer if it is refrigerated. I wanted a car that would last.
便携式	文件已经被输入到一台bian4xie2shi4电脑里了。	The documents have been typed into a portable computer.
旧货	快速巡逻艇迅即赶上那艘jiu4huo4船.	The fast cruiser soon overhauled the old cargo boat.
顶点	ding3dian3的在ding3dian3或者最高点的；头的正上方的	Situated at the vertex or highest point; directly overhead.
展览会	我们参加了春季zhan3lan3hui4。	We participated in the spring fair.
马克思主义	整风就是全党通过批评和自我批评来学习Ma3ke4si1zhu3yi4。	Rectification means the whole Party studying Marxism through criticism and self-criticism.
移情	yi2qing2作用；情感转移一种防卫机制，情感、影响、愿望从原始目标潜意识地转移到一个立即或更可接受的替代对象	A defense mechanism in which there is an unconscious shift of emotions, affect, or desires from the original object to a more acceptable or immediate substitute.
二等	er4deng3兵琼斯（因勇敢）被授予维多利亚十字勋章.	Private Jones was awarded the Victoria Cross (for his gallantry).
跛	他的一条腿bo3了，走路借助于拐杖。	He is lame in one leg and walks with the help of a crutch.
唱反调	老是chang4 fan3diao4的人批判地不同意的人	One who critically disagrees.
绒毛	糙面厚呢一种粗糙不平的带有未修剪的rong2mao2的羊毛呢	A coarse, shaggy woolen cloth with an uncut nap.
施肥	shi1fei2，肥沃化shi1fei2的行动或过程	The act or process of applying a fertilizer.
公社	gong1she4社员们正忙着收割庄稼。	The commune members were busy getting in the crops.
鲜红	她的xian1hong2的帽子使她在姑娘们中间显得特别出众。	Her bright red had set her apart from the other girls.
删去	该剧经shan1qu4两场而缩短了.	The play was shortened by the omission of two scenes.
教条	每一种jiao4tiao2都必定自有其得意之时。	Every dogma must have its day.
当上	dang1shang5了歌剧明星也决非事事如意。	Being an opera star is not all roses by any means.
炮火	我们的pao4huo3控制了通往市区的各条道路。	Our guns covered every approach to the town.
零用钱	我妹妹认为，她能极力说服父亲提高她每月的ling2yong4qian2。	My younger sister thinks she can argue Father into increasing her monthly pocket money.
液态	大多数合成洗涤剂呈粉状或ye4tai4.	Most synthetic detergents are in the form of powder or liquid.
跑掉	他杀死了敌人的看守，然后在老乡们的帮助下pao3diao4了。	He killed the enemy guard and made away with the help of the villagers.
松软	花园里的泥土song1ruan3肥沃。	The earth in the garden is good, soft soil.
莅临	一片欢呼声欢迎女王li4lin2.	Cheers greeted the arrival of the Queen.
公文	我们必须把gong1wen2归档工作弄出些条理来.	We must get some method into our office filing.
浓雾	交通因nong2wu4而受阻。	Traffic was interrupted by a dense fog.
不屈不挠	我们赢得了合同，但是却经过了多次bu4qu1-bu4nao2的谈判才达到目的。	We won the contract but only through a lot of tough negotiating.
压低	如果我们不把价格ya1di1，就甭想拿到订单。	If we do not keep the price down, go bang our chance of get the order.
免于	关于此事对他已mian3yu2处分。	He is exempt from punishment about this thing.
树干	这棵树看起来又高又壮，实际上shu4gan4是空的。	This tree looks high and strong but actually its trunk is hollow.
移居	必须办妥某些手续方可yi2ju1他国.	Certain formalities have to be gone through before one can emigrate.
解说员	jie3shuo1yuan2在伊丽莎白戏剧中朗诵序言和尾声以及有时关于演出评论的演员	An actor in Elizabethan drama who recites the prologue and epilogue to a play and sometimes comments on the action.
愈演愈烈	足球比赛中恣意闹事现在已经达到yu4yan3-yu4lie4的地步。	Football hooliganism is now reaching epidemic proportions.
总要	父亲下午zong3yao4睡个午觉。	Father always takes a nap in the afternoon.
鼓吹	她一直在gu3chui1新鲜空气的好处。	She's always preaching the value of fresh air.
寓所	我可以在我的yu4suo3里为你提供一个床位。	I'll fit you up with a bed at my flat.
猎狗	狐狸躲在lie4gou3抓不到它的灌木丛中。	The fox hid in the thicket where the dog could not reach it.
帝国主义	她在报告中探讨了di4guo2zhu3yi4的本性。	In her talk she went into the nature of imperialism.
书信	＂但是到目前为止，公众已经用shu1xin4向新闻界对大学生们表示感激。＂	But so far, the public has expressed its gratitude to the students in letters to the Press.""
致谢	我很荣幸代表叁加这个宴会的来宾zhi4xie4辞。	I have the honor to reply for the guests at this dinner.
怪诞	奇异风格，形状guai4dan4的图案一种自然的形式和奇异的图形以一种奇异或古怪的方式结合在一起的绘画雕塑和装饰风格	A style of painting, sculpture, and ornamentation in which natural forms and monstrous figures are intertwined in bizarre or fanciful combinations.
罗盘	luo2pan2上南与北是相对的.	South is opposite north on a compass.
工时	宣布了提高工资有个倒霉事在後头--我们得延长gong1shi2.	The announcementof the pay rise had a sting in its tail we would have to work longer hours.
血泊	尸体俯卧在xue4po1中.	The corpse lay face down in a pool of blood.
出勤	他还告诉我说你的辅导课和讨论课chu1qin2率不高。	He also tells me that your attendance at his tutorial and seminar have been poor.
无意识	心理分析由西格蒙德·弗洛伊德创立的一套精神治疗的方法，用自由联系、对梦的阐释和对抵抗和移情的分析来研究被压抑或wu2yi4shi2的冲动、焦虑和内心冲突	The method of psychiatric therapy originated by Sigmund Freud in which free association, dream interpretation, and analysis of resistance and transference are used to explore repressed or unconscious impulses, anxieties, and internal conflicts.
趋向	这首四重奏的曲子反映了现代音乐中一种主要的新qu1xiang4.	This quartet represents a major new trend in modern music.
病理	病，疾病有机体的某一部位、某一器官或系统处于bing4li3状态，由各种因素引起，如传染、遗传缺陷或环境紧张，而且以被视为相同的一组表象或症状为特征	A pathological condition of a part, an organ, or a system of an organism resulting from various causes, such as infection, genetic defect, or environmental stress, and characterized by an identifiable group of signs or symptoms.
求得	黑格尔辩证法特别指与黑格尔通过陈述正题、展开矛盾的反题，并综合和解决它使之成为有条理的综合体而qiu2de2真理有关联的过程	The process especially associated with Hegel of arriving at the truth by stating a thesis, developing a contradictory antithesis, and combining and resolving them into a coherent synthesis.
光束	手电筒的guang1shu4扫遍屋内各个角落.	The flashlight's beam scanned every corner of the room.
力图	政府li4tu2在这个问题上保持低姿态。	The government is trying to keep a low profile on this issue.
数值	某shu4zhi2偏离参考值的一种系统偏差。	A systematic deviation of a value from a reference value.
制订	我想我们应该zhi4ding4出一项行动计划，用来对付这种情况。	I think we should work out a strategy to deal with this situation.
踌躇	她chou2chu2着，不知该怎样宣布这一坏消息。	She hold back, not knowing how to break the terrible news.
收支	公司的帐目shou1-zhi1不平衡。	The company accounts did not balance.
装配	汽车常由机器zhuang1pei4.	The assembly of cars is often done by machines.
跑出	有一只老虎pao3chu1, 正在城里东逃西窜.	An escaped tiger is roaming free in the town.
粘土	他用nian2tu3塑造了一只兔子。	He moulded a rabbit out of clay.
利弊	我希望你们权衡一下一切li4-bi4。	I want you to consider all the pros and cons.
责骂	孩子们想玩多久就玩多久，他们没有事做，也没有人会ze2ma4他们，总而言之，他们很快乐。	The children could play as long as they liked, they had no work to do, and nobody scolded them, in short, they were happy.
帘子	这些织锦lian2zi5很漂亮。	These brocade curtains are beautiful.
辞呈	我们尚未收到他的ci2cheng2。	We haven't yet received his resignation.
不由自主	战栗bu4 you2 zi4zhu3地颤动或抖动，如由于神经或虚弱等原因	An involuntary trembling or quivering, as from nervous agitation or weakness.
打字机	她把一张白纸插入da3zi4ji1里。	She inserted a new sheet of paper into the typewriter.
水坝	那shui3ba4在水的压力下决口了.	The dam burst under the weight of water.
不成	我在卧室里发现两只袜子, 但bu4cheng2对。	I found a couple of socks in the bedroom, but they don't make a pair.
时刻表	shi2ke4biao3有可能更改.	The timetable is subject to alteration.
零时	曲率极限当弧长趋向于ling2shi2该曲率的极限	The limit of this ratio as the length of the arc approaches zero.
膳	他找到住房之前, 在我家寄shan4.	He boarded at my house/with me until he found a flat.
土星	Tu3xing1是依次离太阳的第六颗行星。	Saturn is the planet sixth in order from the sun.
使徒	我买了一本关于神权自shi3tu2传至教皇及其他主教的一脉相承的书。	I bought a book on the passing of spiritual authority from the apostles through successive popes and other bishops.
面包屑	他吃完面包後，去外套上的mian4bao1xie4。	After eating the loaf he whisked the crumbs off his coat.
退还	等我们检查完你的文件就tui4huan2给你.	You can have your files back after we've checked them.
一系列	＂他记住了那yi1xi4lie4日期，但却忽略了与其有关的主要事实。＂	He memorized the list of dates, but neglected the main facts corresponding to them.""
技术员	我是ji4shu4yuan2。	I am a technician.
文艺复兴	早期艺术家某一艺术思潮发展初期阶段的艺术家，尤指Wen2yi4 Fu4xing1以前的艺术家	One belonging to an early stage in the development of an artistic trend, especially a painter of the pre-Renaissance period.
征召	新zheng1zhao4的军人刚配备好个人装具。	The new intake of soldiers has just been kitted out.
本国	这个剧作家受到了ben3guo2人民的尊敬。	The dramatist was respected by people in his country.
炭	tan4笔画用这种tan4笔画成的速描或画	A sketch or drawing made with this charcoal.
赔偿金	法院将法定损害pei2chang2jin1判给了她.	The court adjudged legal damages to her.
测定	我……找到一个六分仪。“好啦！”我说，“他们就是用这个ce4ding4太阳的高度。”	I…found a sextant…""Now, "" I said,""they take the sun through this thing.""
绵延	这条路向远处mian2yan2伸展.	The road extends for miles and miles.
相距	这两个村子xiang1ju4三英里。	The two villages are three miles apart.
平滑	气流分离移动的流线型的躯体上流体边界层上的分隔物，如飞机的机翼，在ping2hua2的流体流动中会引起故障和湍流	A separation in the boundary layer of fluid about a moving streamlined body, such as the wing of an airplane, causing a breakdown in the smooth flow of fluid and resulting in turbulence.
弄坏	你撞到了我的手肘，nong4huai4了我正在画的图画。	You jogged my elbow and spoiled what I was drawing.
小径	牛群踩出了一条通往池塘的xiao3jing4。	The cattle had trodden a path to the pond.
鼓声	gu3sheng1平稳而缓慢。	The beats of the drum were steady and slow.
速成	他们用一周时间教su4cheng2英语课程, 那几天可真紧张!	They teach you English in an intensive course lasting just a week; it's quite an intensive few days!
传遍	消息很快chuan2bian4校园。	The news soon went round the campus.
愤恨	他心中的fen4hen4有增无减。	The resentment festered in his mind.
大都市	他无法适应这个da4du1shi4的现代生活的忙碌。	He can't adjust himself to the whirl of modern life in this big city.
要说	我想他在讲演中所yao4shuo1的每个问题，对你来说，都可能是老生常谈，但是，因为我不是人类学家，我倒觉得它趣味横生，资料丰富哩。	I dare say anything he had to say in the lecture would have been old stuff to you but since I'm not an anthropologist I found it very interesting and informative.
下决心	他xia4 jue2xin1不让任何事情阻挡他。	He resolved that nothing should hold him back.
核子	没有人能想像出全面he2zi3战争的後果.	Nobody can envisage the consequences of total nuclear war.
传染性	剧毒的，致命的极度chuan2ran3xing4的、恶性的或剧毒的，用于疾病或毒素	Extremely infectious, malignant, or poisonous. Used of a disease or toxin.
父辈	我这一代人和我fu4bei4及祖辈表现不同.	My generation behaves differently from my father's and grandfather's.
不动	我使尽了浑身解数也劝bu4 dong4他们.	I tried every trick in the book but I still couldn't persuade them.
卸货	码头工人开始xie4huo4。	Dockers started unloading the ship.
摄氏	水银温度计停留在She4shi435度左右。	The mercury hovered around 35 Celsius degree.
斥责	校长chi4ze2那个学生不该接二连三地迟到。	The principal reprimand the student for his chronic lateness.
来客	他以主人身份接待lai2ke4。	He acted as host to visitors.
纬度	没有一件事情比得上有朋在远方更使这地球显得如此广大的了；他们构成wei3du4，也构成经度。	Nothing makes the earth seem so spacious as to have friends at a distance; they make latitudes and longitudes.
恣意	毁坏这幅画的事是zi4yi4破坏公物的人干的.	The damage to the painting is the work of vandals.
渡口	＂我们在du4kou3等了三个多小时，还是不见船的影子。＂	We waited more than three hours at the ferry, but no sign of a boat was seen.""
停滞不前	由于投资少，我们的工业生产一直ting2zhi4-bu4qian2。	Due to low investment, our industrial output has remained stagnant.
一瞥	畏惧，焦虑的yi1 pie1	A fearful, nervous glance.
标明	他们biao1ming2每艘船的新位置。	They plotted the new position of each vessel.
分期	货款可以fen1qi1支付.	The price of the goods is payable in instalments.
混为一谈	美国以及其他发达国家的官员说，将保护科技（以阻止外流）与对付饥饿问题hun4wei2yi1tan2是在混淆视听。	Officials of the United States and other developed countries said that linking technology protection to the fight against hunger was a red herring.
元件	中性的电路yuan2jian4	A passive circuit element.
硅	整本书的内容只用一片gui1芯片就可以装下。	The entire content of a book will be located on a single silicon chip.
款项	他们向学院赠送了一笔kuan3xiang4以纪念他们的儿子.	They presented a sum of money to the college in memory of their son.
宴请	福斯特先生不能接受你的yan4qing3，深表歉意。	Mr Foster is sorry that he cannot accept your invitation to dinner.
修路	xiu1lu4引起周围居民很多怨言.	The road-works caused much complaint among local residents.
帐户	我想要开个定期存款zhang4hu4。	I think I'd like a deposit account.
歼灭	敌人被jian1mie4了.	The enemy was annihilated.
不宜	该报认为bu4yi2发表我的信.	The newspaper did not see fit to publish my letter.
幼虫	我觉得这虫子是蝴蝶的you4chong2。	I think this worm is a larva of a butterfly.
轧	她把客货车向左一闪以免ya4著狗。	She pulled the van to the left to avoid a dog.
腐化	fu3hua4fu3hua4的行为或过程	The act or process of corrupting.
无误	阐述教义wu2wu4的阐释有关信仰或精神的教义时不出错的	Incapable of error in expounding doctrine on faith or morals.
钙质	gai4zhi4沉着钙盐沉积于体内某一部件或组织的不正常状况	An abnormal condition in which calcium salts are deposited in a part or tissue of the body.
大有	这项工程对每个人都da4you3好处。	This project is of great benefit to everyone.
礁石	绕过前方的jiao1shi2。	Steer clear of the rocks ahead.
变压器	bian4ya1qi4的功用就是把电力从一种电压改变为加一种电压。	The function of the transformers is to change electric power from one voltage to another.
饮用水	我们必须确保yin3yong4shui3的纯净。	We must ensure the purity of drinking water.
医术	yi1shu4在于，当大自然为病者医治疾病的一段期间内，逗得病人高兴。	The art of medicine consists of amusing the patient while nature cures the disease.
温度计	wen1du4ji4上显示出40C.	The thermometer recorded 40C.
自食其果	他企图败坏对手名声反而zi4shi2-qi2guo3, 被控以诽谤罪.	His attempt to discredit his opponent boomeranged (on him) when he was charged with libel.
繁多	届时尚有最新设计的式样，品种fan2duo1的样品陈列，供你们选购。	A great variety of samples, newly designed by our manufacturers, will be on exhibition.
笨重	磨房过去使用ben4zhong4的石磨把麦磨成面粉；现在它们使用的是比较现代的机械。	Mills used to use heavy stones to grind down the wheat into flour; now they use more modern machinery.
雪崩	昨天的xue3beng1造成一批滑雪者死亡, 并毁坏了一些树木.	Yesterday's avalanche killed a party of skiers and destroyed several trees.
担负	这个老人再也dan1fu4不了对自己家庭的责任了。	The old man can hardly bear up to his family responsibility any more.
自由主义	一个竭力鼓吹zi4you2zhu3yi4的政治家	A politician who beats the drum for liberalism.
二者	人而无一住址者是为流浪汉，住址有er4zhe3是为放荡儿。	A man without an address is a vagabond; a man with two address is a libertine.
包装纸	自私的野餐者乱扔bao1zhuang1zhi3使海滩杂乱不堪	Selfish picnickers litter the beach with food wrappers.
新闻记者	他真是愚蠢，竟会拒绝做那份名报的xin1wen2 ji4zhe3。	It is stupid of him to refuse a job as a reporter on that well known newspaper.
缝纫	feng2ren4时，她在手上戴一枚顶针。	She put a thimble over the finger when sewing.
昏厥	飞机上升到这样高度时，飞行员hun1jue2了片刻时间。	The pilot blacked out for a moment upon reaching such a high altitude.
染料	ran3liao4渗透进去了。	The dye works its way in.
过活	我靠父母扶养勉强guo4huo2.	I can just scrape along on what my parents give me.
诱导	动机一种能作为you4dao3物而激发行为的情绪、愿望、心理需要或者类似的心理推动力	An emotion, desire, physiological need, or similar impulse that acts as an incitement to action.
农作物	由於乾旱, nong2zuo4wu4歉收.	The crops failed because of drought.
江河	这会引起污染，破坏我们的海洋和jiang1he2。	It will cause pollution and the destruction of our seas and oceans.
复述	老师要求学生们fu4shu4他们刚读的故事。	The teacher asked the students to retell the story they just read.
旗号	她打著平等的qi2hao4参加了竞选.	She fought the election under the banner of equal rights.
论据	我不得不承认他的lun4ju4有力.	I was compelled to (ie I had to) acknowledge the force of his argument.
共用	gong4yong4餐者如在军队集体食堂里经常与某人一起用膳的人	A person with whom one eats regularly, as in a military mess.
徐徐	一面红旗xu2xu2升起。	A red flag slowly went up the pole.
烟灰	我希望他不要将yan1hui1往地毯上乱弹。	I wish he would refrain from scattering his ash all over the carpet.
失约	他和我有过两次约会，但两次他都shi1yue1了。	He had two appointments with me, but let me down on both occasions.
积压	他利用那机会表达了对主席ji1ya1已久的怨气.	He used the occasion to express all his old grievances against the chairman.
衣衫	他是个yi1shan1褴褛的流浪者。	He is a tramp in shabby old clothes.
水银	shui3yin2的与shui3yin2有关的或含shui3yin2的，尤指含二价汞的	Relating to or containing mercury, especially with valence2.
滑轮	机械装置一个简单装置，如杠杆、hua2lun2或斜面刨，可以改变作用力的大小或方向或同时改变；简单机械装置	A simple device, such as a lever, a pulley, or an inclined plane, that alters the magnitude or direction, or both, of an applied force; a simple machine.
亮度	热情，激情在动态、liang4du4、强度或形态方面类似火焰的东西	Something resembling a flame in motion, brilliance, intensity, or shape.
膏药	雷蒙：他说没什麽，他只是把我的脚踝浸在一些中药里，然后贴上一块gao1yao5。	Raymond: He didn't say anything. He just soaked my ankle in some herbal medicine and then put a patch on it.
粗大	此庙由cu1da4的柱子支撑.	The temple is supported by massive columns.
斩首	查理一世遭zhan3shou3.	Charles I had his head cut off.
左翼	我们的命令是攻击他们的zuo3yi4.	Our orders are to attack their left flank.
皆大欢喜	这些变动jie1 da4 huan1xi3.	The changes were welcomed by everybody.
战时	zhan4shi2的艰苦包括食物配给和燃料短缺.	Wartime austerities included food rationing and shortage of fuel.
一概	他对我们提出的反对意见yi1gai4置之不理。	He waved aside all out objections.
学年	xue2nian2中期考试一xue2nian2中期进行的考试	An examination given in the middle of a school year.
花言巧语	她hua1yan2-qiao3yu3也未能打动他们卖掉别墅。	All her wiles were not enough to persuade them to sell the villa.
杀掉	愤怒的群众嚷道，“sha1diao4这个卖国贼，他该死。	The angry crowd shouted,""Knock the traitor on the head. He is not fit to live.""
难懂	这些注释有助於弄清文中最nan2dong3的部分。	The note help to elucidate the most difficult parts of the text.
铺路	沥青常用于pu1lu4。	Asphalt is used for making road surfaces.
沥青	工人们把li4qing1和沙子、石块混合在一起。	The workers mixed the asphalt with sand and gravel together.
副业	要不是办像酿酒厂或保险公司这样的fu4ye4，他们没有多少人只靠艺术就能过的舒舒服服。	Few of them managed to make a good living out of their art alone, without running a sideline such as a brewery or an insurance office.
漏斗	lou4dou3状物外形象lou4dou3的物体	Something resembling this utensil in shape.
养病	别着急，安心yang3bing4。	Just take care of yourself and don't worry.
撒哈拉	我们听他们讲述Sa1ha1la1沙漠的生活经历。	We listened to their tales about life in the Sahara Desert.
影射	ying3she4ying3she4的事情，特别是巧妙地间接的，通常是贬义的暗示	Something insinuated, especially an artfully indirect, often derogatory suggestion.
拆卸	我们得把发动机chai1xie4开来找出毛病。	We'll have to strip the engine down to find the fault.
思想家	那位著名的进步si1xiang3jia1被邀请在会议上发表演讲。	That famous progressive thinker was asked to deliver a speech at the meeting.
蒸气	机车喷出一股zheng1qi4後就停了下来.	There was a puff of steam from the engine before it stopped.
聚拢	一群人ju4long3起来看发生了什么事。	A crowd gathered to see what had happened.
情势	我们完全掌握了qing2shi4。	We have the situation well in hand.
评定	主考者ping2ding4半数应试者不及格.	The examiners failed half the candidates.
买房	mai3fang2者下星期付定金。	The purchaser of the house will pay the deposit next week.
买不起	我们要是mai3bu5qi3汽车, 也就只好不用（汽车）了.	If we can't afford a car, we'll just have to do without (one).
凿	他把那块石头zao2成一个女人像。	He chiseled that rock into the figure of a woman.
绞刑	他因犯谋杀罪而被处以jiao3xing2。	He was hanged for murder.
干草	储藏gan1cao3料的顶棚	A loft for storing hay.
名胜	来看看伦敦的ming2sheng4.	Come and see the sights of London.
陷于	电力供应中断，城市xian4yu2混乱之中。	After the failure of the electricity supplies the city was in chaos.
向后	反流，逆流xiang4hou4流的水，如由浆的划动引起	A backward flow of water, as from the action of oars.
装成	他一做家务事就zhuang1cheng2舍生取义的样子.	He always acts the martyr when he has to do the housework.
伴有	辐散，散度一种天气状况，特征为：在气团均匀地散在某一地区上空，常ban4you3晴朗干燥天气	A meteorological condition characterized by the uniform expansion in volume of a mass of air over a region, usually accompanied by fair dry weather.
头昏脑胀	就是那念头把我弄得tou2hun1-nao3zhang4.	The very idea sets my head reeling.
远景	在这样yuan3jing3鼓舞下，他们打算修建更多的水渠。	Inspired by these prospects, they planned to build more canals.
积极性	他当初的ji1ji2xing4已淡下去了.	His original enthusiasm has turned sour.
风琴	feng1qin2奏出庄严的乐曲。	The organ rolled out a stately melody.
驶入	数百只小艇随同这艘班轮shi3ru4港湾.	Hundreds of small craft accompany the liner into harbour.
精炼	这些石油将被jing1lian4。	The oil will be refined.
工程学	他受过担任工程师的[gong1cheng2xue2方面的]培训.	He was trained as an engineer/in engineering.
前边	他打了个呵欠，揉了揉眼睛，就到qian2bian5屋里去了。	He yawned, rubbed his eyes and went into the front room.
夷为平地	炸弹把那座建筑yi2wei2ping2di4。	The bombs razed the building to the ground.
批评家	pi1ping2jia1是必然的邪恶，而批评是邪恶的必然。	A critic is a necessary evil, and criticism is an evil necessity.
禁不住	她jin1bu5zhu4诱惑, 又吃了一块巧克力.	She yielded to temptation and had another chocolate.
式样	在法国，时新的shi4yang4都是演员们首创的。	The actors set the fashion in France.
示威者	shi4wei1zhe3与警察发生冲突.	Demonstrators clashed with police.
灾祸	数千人死於这场zai1huo4.	Thousands died in the disaster.
夸耀	那没有什么值得kua1yao4的。	That nothing to boast of.
头上	tou2shang5受了一击后，他昏过去了一会儿。	The blow on the head dazed him for a moment.
空难	那是历史上最严重的kong1nan4。	That was the worst airline disaster in history.
度量	在软件产品评价技术中，对特定软件产品进行软件质量du4liang4的活动。	In software product evaluation, the action of applying a software quality metric to a specific software product.
详尽	今天报纸上登载了总统访问的xiang2jin4报道.	Today's papers carry full reports of the President's visit.
原材料	随着生产量的增长, 需要yuan2-cai2liao4的供应也不断增长。	With the production going up, an increasing supply of raw materials is needed.
瞬	星期六的下午象闪电一样转shun4即逝!	Saturday afternoons go by like lightning!
乘船	她cheng2chuan2在海上长途旅行。	She went on a long sea voyage.
幼年	人类是在you4nian2开始学习第一种语言的。	Mankind learns its first language in early childhood.
逃之夭夭	听到他tao2 zhi1 yao1yao1的消息，我感到惊讶。	I was astonished at the news of his escape.
触目惊心	看到战争造成的荒凉，他感到chu4mu4-jing1xin1。	He felt startled when he saw the desolation caused by war.
字符	印字宽度的单位，以一英寸直线距离上能安置的zi4fu2数计。	A unit of type width based on the number of times a character can be set in one linear inch.
强国	法国一度是占有殖民地的qiang2guo2.	France was once a colonial power.
吸入	蒸发器蒸发的器具，尤其是用于蒸发xi1ru4药剂的装置	One that vaporizes, especially a device used to vaporize medicine for inhalation.
苦味	不加奶的咖啡在嘴里留下了一些ku3wei4.	Black coffee leaves a bitter taste in the mouth.
授课	她给私人shou4ke4以贴补收入.	She gives private lessons to supplement her income.
抽打	他狠命地chou1da3那头可怜的驴.	He gave the poor donkey a terrible lashing.
耳聋	他er3long2阻碍了他与别人的交往.	His deafness shuts him off from the lives of others.
碎石	沥青混泥土sui4shi2或沙子与沥青的混合物，用于铺路或封层顶	Mixed asphalt and crushed stone gravel or sand, used for paving or roofing.
修订	目录正在xiu1ding4之中。	The catalogue is under revision.
有损	这种错误会you3sun3你的事业。	Such a mistake would mar your career.
申请人	问题之一是shen1qing3ren2不得不面对的官僚主义。	One of the problems is the bureaucracy the claimant has to face.
脱险	她已恢复了知觉, 但尚未tuo1xian3.	She's regained consciousness, but she's not out of the woods (ie sure to recover) yet.
官僚主义	guan1liao2zhu3yi4已变得僵化了。	The bureaucracy has become ossified.
熔	黄铜是由铜和锌rong2合制成的。	Brass is formed by the fusion of copper and zinc.
线圈	通电时xian4quan1就会有磁性。	The loop becomes magnetic when the current is switched on.
服务费	fu2wu4fei4获得某种服务必须缴纳的费用，例如长途电话fu2wu4fei4	A charge for a service, such as a long-distance telephone call.
青年人	qing1nian2ren2通常比老年人精力充沛些。	Young people usually have more energy than the old.
匀称	不对称的，不yun2chen4的失去平衡或对称性的	Having no balance or symmetry.
棉布	mian2bu4比尼龙穿着舒服。	Cotton is more comfortable to wear than nylon.
渊博	我对他知识的yuan1bo2感到惊奇。	I was amazed at the extent of his knowledge.
尖刻	他让我尝到了他敏锐jian1ke4之机智的滋味。	He gave me a taste of his acid wit.
毒打	他向警方提供情报而遭那群歹徒du2da3.	He'd been worked over by the gang for giving information to the police.
自治	zi4zhi4组织一个关于研究或咨询的学者zi4zhi4组织，通常是学院内的法定组织	A self-governing society of scholars for study or instruction, incorporated within a university.
小汽车	这工作的附加福利包括一辆xiao3qi4che1和免费健康保险。	The fringe benefits of this job include a car and free health insurance.
移到	一种能动态重新安排存储器的处理技术，即把各连续已用的存储段yi2dao4存储器的一端，把未使用的存储空间集中到存储器的另一端。	A process of dynamic relocation in which contiguous segments are moved to one end of the memory to combine all unused storage at the other end.
酬金	警察是不允许接受chou2jin1的。	The police are not allowed to accept rewards.
啄	那鸟在冰上zhuo2出了一个洞.	The bird picked a hole in the ice with its beak.
废料	甘蔗渣在汁液被榨完以后剩下的甘蔗fei4liao4	The refuse of sugar cane after extraction of the juice.
正方形	zheng4fang1xing2有四个角儿; 立方体有八个角儿.	A square has four corners; a cube has eight.
碱性	因为除去钢中的磷和硫需要一些特殊的条件，这些条件只有jian3xing4法才能满足。	Because the removal of phosphorus and sulfur require special condition that can be met only by the basic process.
内行	我并不自诩对这一问题nei4hang2[是这一问题的专家].	I don't profess expert knowledge of/to be an expert in this subject.
断言	我duan4yan2他所说的是实情。	I affirm that what he said is true.
夺走	去年癌症duo2zou3了他姐姐的生命。	Cancer carried his sister off last year.
爱国主义	ai4guo2zhu3yi4在美国很容易了解；它意味着通过为国家提高警惕的方式来为自己提高警惕。	Patriotism is easy to understand in America; it means looking out for yourself by look out for your country.
齐声	剧情解说员在戏剧或诗朗诵中qi2sheng1朗诵或演唱一个指定部分或作品的人们	A group of persons who speak or sing in unison a given part or composition in drama or poetry recitation.
深长	他唯一的反应是一阵意味shen1chang2的沉默	His only reaction was a pregnant silence.
改建	我们对房子进行了一些gai3jian4.	We are making a few alterations to the house.
炉火	他舒展开身体躺在lu2huo3旁边睡著了.	He stretched (himself) out in front of the fire and fell asleep.
自讨苦吃	如果你在雾天去爬山，你是在zi4 tao3 ku3 chi1。	If you climb mountain in fog, you are asking for it.
铺设	工人们正在道路下面pu1she4管道。	The workers are laying pipes under the road.
尼龙	她用细ni2long2线把珠子串了起来。	She strung the beads with a fine nylon.
课文	你多花点时间学习ke4wen2是有好处的.	You could with profit spend some extra time studying the text.
组织者	zu3zhi1zhe3熟悉国王出访的礼仪.	The organizer was familiar with the protocol of royal visits.
柳树	该湖四周liu3shu4环绕。	The lake is ringed with willows.
帐单	向她索取的比zhang4dan1上显示的数额多出4英镑.	She was charged an excess of 4 over the amount stated on the bill.
叫嚷	他盛怒之下，对我们大声jiao4rang3。	In a blaze of anger he shouted at us.
心旷神怡	这支歌的乐曲使她xin1kuang4-shen2yi2。	The music of this song sent her carefree and joyous.
铁锹	用这样一把旧tie3qiao1挖地真费劲。	It's hard to work this soil with such an old spade.
毫不留情	敌人冲破了前线，但被我们的骑兵部队hao2 bu4 liu2 qing2地从高地击退。	The enemy broke through the front line, but were firmly repulsed from the higher ground by cavalry.
保护性	罩，防护罩用于脸或头的bao3hu4xing4覆盖物	A protective covering for the face or head.
动工	现在大楼已开始dong4gong1，要放弃行动为时已晚。	Now the building has been started, it is too late to back off.
美的	我们尽可谈论Mei3di2事物，然而美本身却是抽象的。	We may talk of beautiful things, but beauty itself is abstract.
低劣	品质（质量）索赔是在货物质量di1lie4或是质量改变的条件下发生的。	Claim on quality originates from inferior quality of goods or quality changes.
圆珠笔	你用yuan2zhu1bi3或铅笔书写均可.	You may write in biro or pencil.
蝗虫	以吃huang2chong2和蜂蜜为生	Living off locusts and honey.
加法	这个小女孩不太善于做jia1fa3。	The little girl is not very clever at addition.
鲜亮	郁金香在春天开出颜色xian1liang5的杯状的花朵。	Tulip grows large brightly-colored cup-shaped flower in spring.
就餐	在中国一张传统的八仙桌通常可容八人jiu4can1。	In China, a traditional big square table usually dines eight persons.""
一遍	我把汽车彻底检修了yi1 bian4。	I gave the car a thorough going-over.
碰运气	他来到北京，想碰peng4 yun4qi4。	He came to Beijing to try his luck.
茅屋	mao2wu1用木杆搭成，上面以草席覆盖。	The hut was made of poles covered with grass mats.
检阅	总统抵达时, jian3yue4了仪仗队.	On his arrival the president inspected the guard of honour.
天文学家	他是那些tian1wen2xue2jia1中最优秀的一个。	He is the best one of those astronomers.
神学	他们正争论shen2xue2上的问题。	They are having a theological argument.
闭幕	交易会定于5月30日bi4mu4。	The Fair is scheduled to close on May30.
动乱	艰难时期；dong4luan4时代	Hard times; a time of troubles.
一团	那些难看的家具使得他的家看上去yi1 tuan2糟糕。	His house looks terrible with those pieces of ugly furniture.
做礼拜	小教堂附属于大教堂的比其小的zuo4 li3bai4的地方	A place of worship that is smaller than and subordinate to a church.
平底锅	我往ping2di3guo1里打了两个鸡蛋。	I cracked two eggs into the frying pan.
检修	所有汽车都需要定期jian3xiu1.	All cars require servicing regularly.
想入非非	他好xiang3ru4 fei1fei1, 觉得自己赢了一块金牌.	He liked to fantasize that he had won a gold medal.
紧缩	政府决定jin3suo1通货.	The Government decided to deflate.
遮蔽	我们设法寻找zhe1bi4暴风雨的地方。	We tried to find cover from the storm.
原稿	yuan2gao3已失, 这是副本.	The original manuscript has been lost; this is a copy.
不胜	女王光临，我们感到bu4sheng4荣幸。	We were graced with the presence of the Queen.
栖息地	生物群落一组生活在特定qi1xi1di4且形成一生态群落的一组相互影响的生物	A group of interacting organisms that live in a particular habitat and form an ecological community.
刻度	烧瓶侧面有ke4du4标志.	The graduations are marked on the side of the flask.
粗心大意	我太cu1xin1-da4yi4, 使他很生气.	He got very annoyed with me about my carelessness.
原作	这幅画的yuan2zuo4在大英博物馆内。	The original picture is in the British Museum.
奉行	他在生活上过于feng4xing2清教徒式的原则，所以不能领略跳舞的乐趣。	He is too much of a puritan to enjoy dancing.
疲乏	那个pi2fa2的人渴望能休息一会。	The tired man craved for rest.
听写	老师给全班同学作了ting1xie3。	The teacher dictated to the whole class.
凹陷	这辆汽车後部在碰撞中造成很大的ao1xian4.	The back of the car was badly dented in a collision.
谬论	任何miu4lun4都拥有拥护它的斗士。	Every absurdity have a champion to defend it.
申请书	我们得把shen1qing3shu1仔细筛选一下以甄别优劣.	We have to sift through the application forms very carefully to separate the wheat from the chaff.
生物学家	这一发现为sheng1wu4xue2jia1展示了新的研究前景.	This discovery opens up new vistas of research for biologists.
不易	这样严竣的法令bu4yi4实施.	Such a strict law is not easily enforceable.
发电厂	风景被fa1dian4chang3破坏了。	This landscape is disfigured by a power station.
桥牌	喂，把qiao2pai2轰出去吧；让咱们找个更愉快的方式一同难受好了。	I say banishing bridge; let's find some pleasant way of being miserable together.
函	感谢你方寄来的电冰箱报价han2。	Thank you for your quotation for the refrigerators.
雷雨	在lei2yu3期间不要站在树下。	Don't stand under a tree during a thunderstorm.
伤残	生理shang1can2会引起心理苦闷.	Physical disability causes mental anguish.
斑斓	这颗钻石在阳光下显得色彩ban1lan2。	The diamond shone with every hue under the sun.
本地人	我们与ben3di4ren2的交往有限。	We had only limited communion with the natives.
怒气冲冲	他拒绝接受选举结果，起身nu4qi4chong1chong1地离开了会场。	Refusing to accept the decision of the vote, he got up and stormed out of the meeting.
丛生	污秽导致疾病cong2sheng1.	Dirt breeds disease.
陶器	在集市场上有tao2qi4制作的示范表演.	There's an exhibition of pottery-making at the fair.
渔业	这艘船从事远洋yu2ye4。	The ship is engaged in pelagic fishery.
优胜	这次网球赛的you1sheng4者是谁？	Who's the winner of the tennis match?
不和	这次争吵是两家bu4he2引起的。	The quarrel originated in rivalry between the two families.
耕种	她geng1zhong4200英亩土地.	She farms 200 acres.
酒厂	我们本地的酿jiu3chang3与另一个公司合并了.	Our local brewery has amalgamated with another firm.
可谓	她很聪明, ke3wei4才智超人.	Her intelligence seems almost superhuman.
哺乳动物	鲸鱼和马一样都是bu3ru3 dong4wu4。	A whale is no less a mammal than a horse is.
把头	鸟ba3tou2斜向[到]一侧.	The bird cocked its head to/on one side.
国际象棋	自从我学会下guo2ji4 xiang4qi2以来，这是我第一次赢。	It was the first time I'd won since I'd learnt to play chess.
捣毁	这个淘气的男孩因为dao3hui3了蜂房而被蜜蜂追赶。	The naughty boy was chased by the bees because he destroyed the honeycomb.
读报	我经常du2bao4来尽量了解时事.	I try to keep in touch with current events by reading the newspapers.
散热器	狗倚著暖烘烘的san4re4qi4.	The dog nestled up against the warm radiator.
松动	她把盖子轻拍了几下使它song1dong4.	She gave the lid a few gentle taps to loosen it.
多方	她对别人对她行为的duo1fang1谴责一点也不在乎。	She cares nothing about the condemnations of her action.
航运	浮冰对这一带的hang2yun4是一种威胁.	Ice-floes are a threat to shipping in the area.
塞子	把sai1zi5拔掉.	Pull the plug out.
行骗	暗机关一种用来欺骗、xing2pian4或欺诈的装置，尤指秘密地和欺骗地控制赌博器具的机械装置	A device employed to cheat, deceive, or trick, especially a mechanism for the secret and dishonest control of gambling apparatus.
羞怯	她在公开场合讲话会xiu1qie4。	She is bashful about speaking in public.
绝缘	你最好给电线裹上jue2yuan2胶布。	You'd better put some insulating tape on electric wires.
大专	必须具备da4zhuan1院校的学位才能从事这一级的工作.	A degree is prerequisite for employment at this level.
老一辈	lao3yi1bei4的各类人都在那里.	Many representatives of the older generation were there.
索引	为了使它更实用，这本书在下一版本中将编有suo3yin3。	The book will be indexed in the next edition so as to make it more useful.
贵国	gui4guo2是什么时候实行普选权的？	When was universal suffrage introduced in your country?
高声	鸟儿在清晨gao1sheng1歌唱。	Birds sing loudest in the early morning.
相配	他的外套和裤子不xiang1pei4。	His coat is not in keeping with the trousers.
系上	警察ji4shang5皮带，走了出去。	The police belted up and went out.
生产力	新制度已对sheng1chan3li4造成了灾难性的影响。	The new system has had a disastrous effect on productivity.
现存	此诗xian4cun2最早的原稿收藏在这座博物馆里。	The earliest extant manuscript of this poem has been kept in the museum.
时来运转	她似乎shi2lai2-yun4zhuan3了。	Her luck seems to have taken an upturn.
简便	我想我找到了jian3bian4方法，给钱而不是花时间。	I think I'll take the easy way out and give money instead of time.
抄写	家庭医生都迫切希望为病人提供适当的服务，但他们若为日常抄chao1xie3写的工作所束缚，便不能给病人必需的关心。	Family doctors are anxious to provide a proper service for their patients, but they can't give them the attention they need if they've shackled with paperwork.
可望	厂家已在试验制造，完全符合所要求的规格，ke3wang4在两周内完成。	Maker make trial product exactly conform specification expect completion within fortnight.
电能	无轨电车的dian4neng2是通过架空线供给的。	The trolley bus picks up current from an overhead wire.
合资	总的来说，he2zi1企业比国有企业更吸引我。	On balance, joint ventures appeal to me more than state-owned enterprises.
石灰	他往shi2hui1里加了些水。	He added some water into the lime.
一世	查理yi1shi4统治英国11年。	Charles ruled England for 11 years.
折合	二十市斤zhe2he2十公斤。	20 jin goes to 10 kilograms.
听来	照我这外行人ting1lai2, 你的嗓音差不多够专业水平了.	To my untutored ear, your voice sounds almost professional.
整数	把 1.90 英镑的费用上调为zheng3shu4 2 英镑, 把 3.10 英镑下调为zheng3shu4 3 英镑.	A charge of 1.90 will be rounded up to 2, and one of 3.10 rounded down to 3.
误点	我那趟班机wu4dian3了, 我只好看书消磨时间[打发了两小时].	My flight was delayed, so I killed time/killed two hours reading a book.
荒原	北方的大huang1yuan2地广人稀。	The wasteland of the north is scarcely populated.
原木	他们把yuan2mu4锯成一块块厚板。	They are sawing a log into planks.
私营	把国家公园si1ying2化? 他们绝对不敢, 对吗?	Privatize the national parks? They'd never dare, would they?
抛售	正如今天的报道，英磅进一步下跌导致了市内的pao1shou4的一股新浪潮。	The further decline of the pound as reported today has set off a fresh wave of selling in the city.
大体上	计算机性能和价格关系的法则，即性能与价格的平方da4ti3shang4相等。	A theory that the power of a computer is equivalent roughly to its cost squared.
异端	yi4duan1创始或领导人yi4duan1邪说或运动的发起者或主要倡导者	One who originates or is the chief proponent of a heresy or heretical movement.
敦促	主席dun1cu4党的工作人员采取行动。	The chairman exhorted the party workers to take action.
野兔	他们决定明天去田野里打ye3tu4。	They decide to go potting at rabbits in the field tomorrow.
自愧不如	他那么聪明，让我zi4kui4-bu4ru2。	He's so clever, he makes me feel inferior.
大幅度	列车车次已da4fu2du4减少.	Train services have been cut to the bone.
漏气	夜里在乡村小路上，他的车子两个轮胎lou4qi4了，又没有备用轮胎，他肯定难办死了。	He had two flat tires and no spare on a country road, which was certainly a pretty kettle of fish.
隐隐约约	他yin3yin3yue1yue1地觉得以前曾经见过她.	At the back of his mind was the vague idea that he had met her before.
全票	他以quan2piao4当选.	He was elected by a unanimous vote.
农田	荒芜或边远的nong2tian2	Barren or marginal farmland.
独立自主	du2li4-zi4zhu3的意识及判断上独立的；自我指引的	Independent in mind or judgment; self-directed.
沿路	他推着手推车yan2lu4走过。	He trundled a wheelbarrow down the path.
哼唱	卡祖笛一种当吹奏者向吹口处低吟或heng1chang4时一个膜能够发出声音的玩具乐器	A toy instrument with a membrane that produces a sound when a player hums or sings into the mouthpiece.
扬言	他们yang2yan2要一下子取消整个项目.	They threatened to cancel the whole project at a stroke.
薪金	其他地方更优厚的xin1jin1待遇诱使他离开了公司。	He was seduced into leaving the company by the offer of higher pay elsewhere.
电机	（同步电动机的）速度偏差同步dian4ji1运行速度的周期性变化	The periodic variation in speed of a synchronous motor with respect to the current.
浪漫主义	有些诗人，如济慈和雪莱，写的是lang4man4zhu3yi4的诗歌。	Such poets as Keats and Shelley wrote Romantic poetry.
自动化	半导体在zi4dong4hua4和信号上面即将起着重要作用。	Semiconductors are going to play an important part in automation and signalling.
编成	bian1cheng2一本字典是一个缓慢的过程。	Producing a dictionary is a slow process.
易懂	资料应该明白yi4dong3。	The information ought to be made more accessible.
哈姆雷特	《ha1 mu3 lei2 te4》是今年高级程度考试中指定的必读书.	`Hamlet' is a set text for A level this year.
化学家	有的hua4xue2jia1研究气体的性质.	Chemists study the nature of gases.
甜菜	糖大多是用甘蔗和tian2cai4制的。	Most sugar comes from sugar-cane and sugar-beet.
俯冲	飞机猛然fu3chong1致使驾驶员昏厥。	The plane dive suddenly, cause the pilot to black out.
厂房	该工程费用开支可分成如下几部分: 工资一千万英镑, chang3fang2设备四百万英镑, 原料五百万英镑.	Expenditure on the project breaks down as follows: wages 10m, plant 4m, raw materials 5m.
雷声	我们听见远处隆隆的lei2sheng1。	We heard the thunder growling in the distance.
在外	壁炉凸出zai4wai4，伸入房间。	The fireplace came out into the room.
男孩儿	nan2hai2r5们恨不得马上就出发.	The boys were champing to start.
笔画	这是他的亲bi3hua4。	This is a picture of his own painting.
瓜分	他们gua1fen1了赢得的钱.	They divvied up the winnings between them.
近似	计步器，步程器一种通过记录所行步数来估测步行jin4si4距离的仪器	An instrument that gauges the approximate distance traveled on foot by registering the number of steps taken.
立体声	我倒是想要一套新的li4ti3sheng1音响器材, 可是没这笔钱（买）.	I'd like a new stereo, but I haven't got the wherewithal (to buy it).
哨兵	shao4bing1们都已各就各位.	The sentries are all at their posts.
会话	在日常hui4hua4中，你是请求别人做事，而不是""命令""他们。	In everyday conversation, you request people to do things, not ""order"" them.
限期	提案规定了一年的xian4qi1。	The proposal set a time limit of one year.
实例	违犯，违背违反的动作或shi2li4，或被违反的状态	The act or an instance of violating or the condition of being violated.
万里	阳光透过wan4li3碧空照耀着北京城。	From a sky of untarnished blue the sun beamed down upon Beijing.
缝纫机	我婆婆有一台feng2ren4ji1。	My mother-in-law has a sewing machine.
装订	zhuang1ding4术，业zhuang1ding4书本的技艺、行业或职业	The art, trade, or profession of binding books.
刀叉	最上面的抽屉是放dao1-cha1的。	The top drawer is the one with the cutlery in.
拱门	穿过gong3men2, 沿著那条路走.	Go through the arch and follow the path.
紧要关头	现在到了jin3yao4 guan1tou2。	We have come to the critical moment.
赔钱	航空公司因有几架飞机暂时不能使用而正在pei2qian2.	With several of their planes temporarily out of commission, the airline is losing money.
听候	（你）抵达旅馆後, 请ting1hou4进一步指示.	On (your) arrival at the hotel please wait for further instructions.
果树	guo3shu4栽培学对guo3shu4的科学研究和栽培	The scientific study and cultivation of fruit.
传导	搬运器一种用以传送或chuan2dao3物品的机械或装置	A mechanism or device by which something is conveyed or conducted.
互利	我相信通过双方的努力，交易往来定会朝着hu4li4的方向发展。	I am convinced that with joint effort, business between us will be developing to our mutual benefit.
长方形	我把一个chang2fang1xing2的盒子放在桌子上。	I put a rectangular box on the table.
条文	法律的精神比它的具体tiao2wen2更重要。	The spirit of a law is more important than its word.
日趋	社会的组织ri4qu1腐朽。	The social fabric is rotting.
野鸭	芭芭内鸭系由ye3ya1与普通鸭杂交而成。	A barbary duck is a cross between a wild duck and an ordinary duck.
劝阻	他受quan4zu3去做另一次的尝试。	He was discouraged from making another attempt.
诉诸	如果这一政策不被采纳为政府的政策，那么我有责任su4zhu1国民公决。	If this policy were not accepted as the policy of the Government, I should feel it my duty to appeal to Caesar.
油布	这块you2bu4是用来铺桌子的。	The piece of oilcloth is used as a covering for a table.
市价	史密斯先生不想因坚持按shi4jia4购进而失去做买卖的机会。	Mr Smith did not want to lose his market by sticking to having it at the market price.
炮兵	pao4bing1部署在西边.	Artillery was deployed in the west.
减税	市民的情绪是赞成jian3shui4。	Sentiment in the town is now in favor of a cut in tax.
减低	大家正在进行一场jian3di1城市噪音的运动.	People are campaigning to abate the noise in our cities.
侍候	她喜欢仆人前呼後拥地shi4hou4她.	She loves to have servants dance attendance (up) on her.
急用	遇有ji2yong4时，我们只好动用积蓄。	If it come to the push, we shall have to use our savings.
中和	昼盲（症）一种视觉缺陷，其特点是在明亮的光线zhong1he2在阴暗的光线里一样无法看清东西	A visual defect characterized by the inability to see as clearly in bright light as in dim light.
气力	机器使人们有可能用较小的qi4li4做较多的工作。	Machines make it possible that people do more work with less energy.
强光	探照灯发出qiang2guang1, 照亮监狱场地.	The searchlights glared, illuminating the prison yard.
年中	在过去的两nian2zhong1, 那家钢铁厂一直提供给我们原材料。	The steel works has been supplying us with raw material in large quantities.
印度教	甘地，穆罕达斯·卡拉姆昌德1869－1948印度民族主义者和精神领袖，推动了非暴力不抵抗运动并迫使英国于1947年允许印度独立，被一个Yin4du4jiao4狂热分子暗杀	Indian political leader who served as prime minister(1966-1977) and(1980-1984). She was assassinated by Sikh extremists.
驻守	政府将派军zhu4shou3沿海的城镇。	The government will garrison the coastal towns.
截断	乱石一种质地很软以致于不须砸或劈就能被轻易jie2duan4的石头，如石灰石	A stone, such as limestone, that is soft enough to be cut easily without shattering or splitting.
栖身	成群的歹徒犯法后qi1shen1于荒山中。	Bands of outlaws lived in the desolate mountains after breaking the laws.
修缮	学校的xiu1shan4将由教育部门出资。	The repairs to the school will be financed by the educational department.
化学武器	政府已经禁止使用hua4xue2 wu3qi4。	The government has banned the use of chemical weapons.
罪责	这场大祸zui4ze2全在公司.	The blame for the disaster has been laid firmly at the company's door.
讲演	布道一次讲道，尤其是旨在于实际问题上启发会众，而不在于成为神学jiang3yan3	A sermon, especially one intended to edify a congregation on a practical matter and not intended to be a theological discourse.
言谈	胡说，废话愚蠢的，鲁莽的yan2tan2，胡说	Foolish, insolent talk; nonsense.
选取	假如你正确地xuan3qu3了其他念头，假如这个念头的确受到别的领域的情趣的启迪。	And if this something else is rightly chosen, if it is really attended by the illumination of another field of interest.
成群结队	夏季游人cheng2qun2-jie2dui4到博物馆和艺术馆参观。	In the summer, tourists flock to the museums and art galleries.
梗	geng3草各种草的硬花geng3	The stiff stalk of various grasses.
厂长	解放后，他被任命为这个厂的chang3zhang3。	He was named director of the plant after liberation.
火冒三丈	他的评论把她气得huo3mao4-san1zhang4。	She was seething with rage at his remarks.
民选	在英国, 女王是君主而治理国家的却是min2xuan3的代表.	In Britain the Queen reigns, but elected representatives of the people govern the country.
拂晓	fu2xiao3时敌人向我防线开了火。	The enemy opened fire on our lines at early dawn.
特指	公路te4zhi3连结城市、县镇的公用道路	A main public road, especially one connecting towns and cities.
文体	她的wen2ti3极其清晰明白。	Her style is clear as crystal.
括号	统计数字在kuo4hao4里.	The statistics were given in parenthesis.
光秃秃	灼热的阳光炙烤着guang1tu1tu1的大地。	The fierce sun parched the bare earth.
植被	葱翠的有或以茂盛zhi2bei4为特征的	Having or characterized by luxuriant vegetation.
诈骗罪	她被判犯有zha4pian4zui4.	She stood convicted of fraud.
连结	我们两国被共同关切的问题lian2jie2在一起。	Our two nations are knit together by common concerns.
社论	she4lun4的中心内容	The meat of the editorial.
从容不迫	他cong2rong2-bu4po4地走进室内。	He entered the room with deliberate steps.
伙食费	huo3shi2fei4另加。	Meals are extra.
花环	桂冠用月桂编成的hua1huan2，古时作为一种荣誉的标志授予诗人、英雄和体育竞赛中的优胜者	A wreath of laurel conferred as a mark of honor in ancient times upon poets, heroes, and victors in athletic contests.
作物	因天气寒冷，今年的zuo4wu4成熟得晚。	Because of the cold weather the crops are late this year.
外墙	这座建筑的wai4qiang2被漆成了蓝色。	The outer walls of the building were painted blue.
乱扔	他因在人行横道上luan4reng1杂物而被罚款。	He was fined for littering on the sidewalks.
面带	他mian4dai4恳求的神态跪在皇帝面前。	He knelt in front of the emperor with a look of entreaty.
狄更斯	我那套di2 geng1 si1小说只差一卷就能配齐了.	I only need one volume to complete my set of Dickens's novels.
自有	＂对年青人的思想、感情和行动发生这样巨大的兴趣，zi4you3它的道理。＂	There are reasons for this great interest in the ideas, feelings, and actions of youth.""
分期付款	我们将按月fen1qi1 fu4kuan3买房。	We will pay for houses by monthly installments.
糕饼	gao1bing3每块20便士.	The cakes are 20p each.
哄骗	他用虚假的诺言hong3pian4了她。	He deluded her with empty promises.
养殖	采牡蛎者捉、yang3zhi2或专卖牡蛎的人	One who gathers, cultivates, or sells oysters.
聪颖	她的cong1ying3是不言而喻的。	Her intelligence is self-evident.
伸长	简shen1chang2脖子张望，在人群中找她的母亲。	Jane craned her neck to look for her mother in the crowd.
倾向于	多言的，罗唆的qing1xiang4 yu2用超过传达意思所必需的词的，用超过传达意思所必需的词叙述的	Tending to use, using, or expressed in more words than are necessary to convey meaning.
木料	虫子已经蛀穿了mu4liao4。	Worms have bored into the wood.
讲义	他只不过是照背jiang3yi4而已.	He's simply regurgitating stuff remembered from lectures.
砖块	露头砖垂直而不是平行于墙根放置的zhuan1kuai4	A brick laid across rather than parallel with a wall.
废气	fei4qi4已过视为城市空气污染的原因。	Exhaust gas has been incriminated in air pollution in cities.
跳进	青蛙tiao4jin4了沟里。	The frog jumped into the ditch.
远洋	yuan3yang2航路总是很繁忙.	The ocean lanes are always busy.
书页	小男孩喜欢在shu1ye4空白边上做笔记。	The little boy likes to make notes in the margin of books.
垮台	公司在新人管理下就要kua3tai2了。	The firm is going to pot under the new management.
正如	zheng4ru2他所指出的那样，一切反动派都是纸老虎。	As he pointed out, all reactionaries are paper tiger.
引人入胜	他的作品中含有真正yin3 ren2 ru4 sheng4的东西。	His writing contains some real goodies.
独木舟	他的爱好从下国际象棋到划du2mu4zhou1, 范围很广.	His interests ranged from chess to canoeing.
转换器	扩展器在某一给定范围的输入电压内产生较大输出电压的zhuan3huan4qi4	A transducer designed for a given range of input voltages that produces a larger range of output voltages.
鹿角	鹿有些种类能脱换lu4jiao3.	Some kinds of deer shed their horns.
百分比	那数字是以bai3fen1bi3表示的.	The figure is expressed as a percentage.
补牙	牙医用汞合金给我bu3ya2.	The dentist used amalgam to fill my teeth.
课时	讲ke4shi2不要岔开（主题）.	Don't digress (from the subject) when lecturing.
小城	自从我上次离开这里以来，这xiao3cheng2已经变得认不出来了。	The town has altered out of all recognition since I was last there.
分针	那根巨大的fen1zhen1不动了。我们等来等去，但一点儿动静也没有。	The big minute hand did not move. We waited and waited, but nothing happened.
所得税	他的收入有多少需纳suo3de2shui4?	What percentage of his income is taxable?
波纹	她把一块石头扔进池塘里，看著水的bo1wen2扩散开。	She throw a stone into the pond and watch the ripples spread.
火车头	他的huo3che1tou2模型缺了一个零件.	He lost one of the pieces of his model engine.
不下	我盖不上[取bu4xia4]盖子.	I can't get the lid on/off.
藉口	每个男人都有他的用处，每个女人都有她的jie4kou3。	Every man has his uses, and every woman her excuses.
雪松	松树、 xue3song1、 云杉都是常绿的树.	The pine, cedar and spruce are evergreens.
中型	好。是要豪华型、zhong1xing2还是小型车？	Ok. Luxury, mid-size or compact?
杂乱无章	桌子上堆满了一堆堆za2luan4-wu2zhang1的文件。	There are piles of papers all over the desk with no semblance of order.
居住地	自从岛上蚊子被消灭后，那儿成了更加美好的ju1zhu4di4。	Since the mosquitoes were killed off, the island has become a far pleasanter place to live in.
反对派	这个计划的fan3dui4pai4全部屈服了。	All opposition to the plan has caved in.
断然	我三番五次请她来，她都duan4ran2拒绝了。	I asked her several times to come but she categorically refused.
自吹自擂	我并不是zi4chui1-zi4lei2，但所有的重要工作都是我干的。	I'm not blowing my own trumpet, but I did all the top jobs.
新近	他用图表和数字进一步阐明他xin1jin4的发现。	He amplified(on) his new findings with drawings and figures.
呜咽	她wu1ye4着诉说自已的孩子是怎样死去的。	She sobbed out the story of the death of her child.
电话机	安装dian4hua4ji1与总机接通要多长时间?	How long will the connection of the telephone take? ie How long will it take to install a telephone and connect it to the exchange?
和平共处	我们的外交政策是和其它国家he2ping2 gong4chu3。	Our foreign policy is to coexist with other countries.
屠宰	大屠杀大规模杀戮，如战争中的大屠杀；tu2zai3	Massive slaughter, as in war; a massacre.
有的是	他应该主动提出付款--他you3de5shi4钱, 别忘了.	He should have offered to pay he has plenty of money, after all.
保险单	他因bao3xian3dan1失效未得任何补偿.	He didn't get any compensation because his insurance policy had lapsed.
酬	【谚】无蜂则无密，不劳则无chou2。	No bees, no honey; no work, no money.
假使	jia3shi3一个人健康什麽事都能率得到。	Given good health, one can achieve anything.
词句	我们用ci2ju4来表达思想。	We express our thought by means of words.
群居	女王在qun2ju1的蜜蜂、蚂蚁或白蚁群体中，可繁殖并发育完全的雌虫	The fertile, fully developed female in a colony of social bees, ants, or termites.
蒸馏	水可以通过zheng1liu2而提纯。	Water can be made pure by distilling it.
讨人喜欢	尽管我俩相貌不同，但都tao3ren2xi3huan5。	Although our looks differ, we are both attractive.
刑场	如果是女人，在她走向xing2chang3的半路上，也可能会要求一点时间来化妆。	If a woman were on her way to her execution, she will demand a little time to put on make- up.
兴建	我们把钱用在xing1jian4灌溉工程上了.	We used the money to set up an irrigation project.
贫瘠	荒原荒凉、pin2ji2或遭到毁坏之土地	Land that is desolate, barren, or ravaged.
注解	有的人一面读书一面做zhu4jie3。	Some people annotate as they read.
开夜车	他好几个晚上kai1 ye4che1学习。	He stayed up nights studying.
溪流	雪融化时, 山间xi1liu2变成山洪暴发.	When the snow melts, the mountain stream becomes a deluge.
体育运动	他是一个ti3yu4 yun4dong4爱好者。	He is a sports buff.
奴隶制	nu2li4zhi4在许多国家已经被废除。	The abolition of slavery had been exercised in many countries.
烙	没有那种不粘锅底的铛就lao4不好饼.	It's very difficult to make pancakes without a ,non-stick frying-pan.
要不是	yao4bu5shi4报纸，我们都赶不上时代了。	Without newspaper, we would get behind the times.
隐私权	民事的，民法的关于个人yin3si1quan2及相关于这些权利的法律诉讼程序的，区别于刑事的、军事的或国际的条例或诉讼程序	Relating to the rights of private individuals and legal proceedings concerning these rights as distinguished from criminal, military, or international regulations or proceedings.
骇人听闻	国际商业机器有限公司昨天又在华尔街宣布了一项hai4 ren2 ting1wen2的消息，警告分析家说他们可以预期第二季度盈利至少下降百分之八十。	IBM dropped yet another bombshell on Wall Street yesterday, warning analysts to expect at least an80% slide in second-quarter earnings.
河道	他们须疏浚运河he2dao4轮船方可通航.	They have to dredge the canal so that ships can use it.
慌忙	警方来到时, 他huang1mang2逃走[夺门而逃]了.	When the police arrived he made a bolt for it/for the door.
针扎	她被zhen1zha1了一下。	She pricked herself on a needle.
理想主义	li3xiang3zhu3yi4，是按和问题的距离成正比例而增大的。	Idealism increase in direct proportion to one's distance from the problem.
饲养员	si4yang3yuan2正在喂动物。	The keeper is feeding the animals.
宣讲	他每逢圣诞节都xuan1jiang3同一教旨.	He preaches the same sermon every Christmas.
围困	敌人以强大的军队wei2kun4城市。	The enemy beset the city with a strong army.
千克	链球由重16磅（7。2qian1ke4）的金属球和一条长链或木把手组成，人手持链端或把手在田径比赛中将其投远以争高低	A metal ball weighing16 pounds(7.2 kilograms) and having a long wire or wooden handle by which it is thrown for distance in track-and-field competition.
关税	由于海关征收繁重的紧急guan1shui4，使得我们处于极其困难的境地。	The imposition of heavy emergency custom duties have render our position exceedingly difficult.
公报	他把gong1bao4送来，我仔细看了一遍。	He sent me the communique.I looked it through thoroughly.
钮扣	请你在这件衬衫上钉一颗niu3kou4好吗？	Will you stitch a button on this shirt?
环抱	庄园主宅第是一栋huan2bao4在美丽的花园中的大理石房子。	The manor is a marble house surrounded by a beautiful garden.
藏书	这一千本书将构成学校新图书馆cang2shu1的基础。	These 1000 books will form the nucleus of the new school library.
纵向	这些餐桌是zong4xiang4摆放的。	The tables were laid lengthwise.
取决	一切均将qu3jue2於这些会谈的结果.	Everything hinges on the outcome of these talks.
少数民族	shao3shu4 min2zu2音乐会持续了两个小时。	The minority nationality concert lasted two hours.
若非	我会寂寞，ruo4fei1有鸟也有花。	I should be lonely, were it not for the birds and the flowers.
叔父	他父亲打发他到他shu1fu4家去。	His father sent him off to his uncle's.
全套	当他穿着quan2tao4大礼服露面的时候，显得和整个场合很不协调。	He looked rather out of place when he turned up in full ceremonial rig.
农舍	nong2she4是用木头建造的。	The farmhouse was built of wood.
教员	她用欺骗手法取得了理科jiao4yuan2的职位，她谎称曾在大学读过书。	She got the job of science teacher by fraudulent means; she pretended she'd studied at university.
一家人	她要养活yi1jia1ren2.	She's got a family to feed.
气喘	他登上顶端时qi4chuan3得很厉害.	He was quite puffed by the time he reached the top.
冲向	骑士们chong1xiang4宫殿去保护国王。	The knights rushed into the palace to protect their king.
茂密	小树林缺乏mao4mi4下层树丛的小树林或树木群体	A small wood or stand of trees that lacks dense undergrowth.
原处	当其他人走了之后，玛丽留下来，将家具放回yuan2chu4。	When the others had gone, Mary remained and put back the furniture.
炖肉	他吃了整整一听dun4rou4.	He ate a whole tin of stew.
惟妙惟肖	该艺术家把她那温柔的笑容表现得wei2miao4-wei2xiao4。	The artist had rendered her gentle smile perfectly.
外流	这个国家最优秀的人才在不断wai4liu2。	This country is being drained of its best talents.
有意义	语素一种含有一个单词的you3 yi4yi4的语言单位，如人或一词素，如－ed在单词walked中，不能被划分为更小的you3 yi4yi4单位	A meaningful linguistic unit consisting of a word, such as man, or a word element, such as-ed in walked, that cannot be divided into smaller meaningful parts.
连锁反应	政府害怕罢工可能在其他行业产生lian2suo3 fan3ying4.	The Government fear the strike may produce a chain reaction in other industries.
老一套	别玩lao3yi1tao4的把戏了！	Don't play old tricks!
彬彬有礼	礼仪，礼节bin1bin1 you3 li3的行为的习俗	The conventions of polite behavior.
众议院	她的讲话在zhong4yi4yuan4激起一片抗议声.	Her speech threw the House (ie of Commons) into a tumult (of protest).
夸夸其谈	他又来这一套了, kua1kua1 qi2 tan2, 像往常一样谈来谈去都是废话.	There he goes, blah blah blah, talking nonsense as usual.
和睦相处	他总能和同事们he2mu4xiang1chu3。	He can always get on well with his colleagues.
薄雾	山顶上bo2wu4环绕。	Mist wreathed the hilltops.
开化	原始人，未kai1hua4的人被其他民族或群体视为拥有原始文化的人	A member of a people considered by those of another nation or group to have a primitive civilization.
工作组	已成立gong1zuo4zu3调查该问题.	A working party has been set up to look into the problem.
倒置	椅子被dao4zhi4过来放在了桌子上。	The chairs were inverted on the table.
叶片	危险: ye4pian4旋转, 注意安全.	Danger: rotating blades.
祸根	恐怖主义是整个国家的huo4gen1。	Terrorism is a threat to the whole country.
